Şebnem Ferah (born April 12, 1972 in Yalova, Turkey) is a Turkish singer and songwriter. She was the lead singer of girl group hard rock Volvox until 1994, after which she began her solo career. His style of music ranges from pop rock to hard rock albums in his progress note with hints of more hard rock sound. == == Life and Career Şebnem Ferah was born on April 12, 1972, 1972 in Yalova, Turkey since his parents were immigrants from the Republic of Macedonia. She first took voice lessons and instruments because his father was also a teacher. She grew up listening to folk songs with his father played mandolin and piano.Ella got his first guitar when estuaba in the first year of high school, I take acoustic classes. In the second year she and her friends formed the band Pegasus. The group had their first experience on stage at the festival in Bursa in 1987 after which Pegasus disbanded. In 1988 she and her four friends decided to form Volvox which was named after the volvox organism was in a session biología.Después graduating from high school she went to the Middle East Technical University studying economics and moved to Ankara with his sister, during this time she met Özlem Tekin, who had become a famous pop singer in Turkey and this rock joined Volvox. Volvox took over a year and a half without testing because its members were far away from each other except Özlem Şebnem and living in Istanbul. In the second year of college, Şebnem change your mind about being an economist so he left and went to Istanbul where he took classes in English and Literature at The University of Istanbul. For two years she performed in bars with Volvox until 1994 date disolvio.Un major change in Şebnem musical career came when one of Volvox recordings was filed in the radio and television turca.Fue Sezen Aksu and observed by Onno Tunc, two important figures of Turkish music, and later became a vocalist for Sezen Aksu.Ella released his first solo album called: Kadin in 1996, thereafter has released 5 albums and one studio fully live, in 2005 releasing his album Can Kırıklarısoft roc framework with which his return to hard rock after his experiments with soft rock.Ahora she is now seen as the leader of the Turkish rock and one of the most admired singers in Turkey. . Besides composing his music and lyricas of all songs on their albums, she occasionally sings and coverea some songs of his style and voice quality as Amy Lee and Skin == Members == Şebnem The current group consists of: * Buket Doran (bass) * Metin Türkcan (Guitar) * Aykan İLKAN (Percussion) * Ozan Tugen (keyboard) Those who play with it in the studio and live on stage from his third album....