Aria (Russian: Ария) is a popular Russian heavy metal band formed in 1985, which ranks among the top 10 bands in Russia. Aria's music resembles the sound of NWOBHM bands are known by the press as the Russian Iron Maiden. Most Aria lyrics have been written by the Russian poet Margarita Pushkina.Aria is the root of the family called Aria, several bands formed by former miembros.En 1987, four former members of Aria formed the band Master, who is still considered, along with Aria, one of the most influential Russian metal bands. Vocalist Valery Kipelov, who was the lead singer of the band on most of the albums of the group, left in 2002 and formed his own heavy metal band, Kipelov.Till Lindemann and Richard Kruspe, Rammstein, song versionaron Aria, Shtil (Штиль). In this cover, the song name is Germanized, renamed Schtiel.Sus covers are usually made by the artist Leo Hao, who has also worked for bands like Blind Guardian or Iced Earth. == History ===== Early = == the band was founded by guitarist and bassist Vladimir Holstinin Alik Granovsky, two members of VIA Poyushie Serdsa and both members of the Alpha dissolved. Holstinin The idea of creating a heavy metal band was enthusiastically accepted by Granovsky. In 1985 they had all the material needed for recording and just needed to find a studio and a singer. Victor offered Vekshtein will be the manager of the group and allow them to use their study. The vocalist position was quickly filled by Valery Kipelov.Se Ария he named the group because he seemed short, catchy and easy to translate as Aria. There is another version that says that the idea of calling the group and was Holstinin which had a Japanese guitar brand Aria. To the members and fans of Aria are often called ariytsi (noble in Russian). According to the group's website, the anniversary of the band is the October 31, 1985, the date on completing their first album, "Maniya Velichiya "(Мания Величия). The album caught the attention among fans of metal that was very different from hard rock that was played in the USSR at the time. "Maniya Velichiya" (Megalomania) was recorded with Holstinin sole guitarist, Alexander Lvov on drums and Kirill Pokrovsky as keyboardist . The group sought a second guitarist to gig and found Andrey Bolshakov. In addition, Igor Molchanov (member of Alpha) replaced Lvov on batería.Su first live performance was on February 5, 1986, in DK MAI. The band was well received by the public, appearing in "Rock-Panorama-86" and "86-Lithuanika" festivals. Although still being ignored by the press, his popularity was creciendo.En November 1986 they recorded their second album, "S kem ty?" (Who is you?). By then, the band was divided by the direction they were taking and management of Victor Vekshtein as manager. After a tour in January 1987, Granovsky, Bolshakov, Molchanov and Pokrovsky left the group (the first two formed the thrash metal band Master). They were replaced by Vitaly Dubinin (college friend of Holstinin) on bass, Sergey Mavrin as second guitarist and Maxim Udalov on drums. After his first major concert since its reorganization and subsequent tour they silenced the rumors about the end of the band. === === Fame Arrives In August 1987, Aria starts working on his next job, "Geroy asphalt "(Hero of asphalt), considered one of the best albums of the group. This album was first released by Melodiya. With this album managed to sell about a million copies and achieved full on every concert. They recorded a video of the song Rose Street in which his followers appeared masa.Durante that time, relations with their manager reached a critical point. Because of this, in October 1988 Udalov left the band, being replaced by Aleksandr Maniakin in November of that year. The following year publish their fourth album, "Igra s ogniom" (Playing with Fire) with Yuriy Fishkin as new manager. === The 90 === In 1990, after celebrating its 5th anniversary with several performances direct, I start working on their next album, which would leave the market in 1991 under the title "Krov za krov" (blood for blood). During the first half of the 90s the band begins to look less regularly, reducing their performances . In 1994 created his own label, ARIA Records and sign a five-year contract with the record MOROZ Records. As a result, the first five albums reissued the band, including unreleased material prior to its first trabajos.thumb | Dubinin (left) and Holstinin, leaders of the group. Behind them, Max Udalov.En September of that year the band takes a two-week tour of seven cities in Germany, including playing at the Hard Rock Café in Berlin. At the end of this tour, the group has problems with organizdores, which also causes problems within the band. When the tour ends, Kipelov keep coming to the recordings in the studio, where the band was working on their next album, and joins Master. In December Alexey Bulgakov, Legion singer, joins the group. In January, Sergey Mavrin leaves the group and does not want to continue without his friend Kipelov, and is replaced by Sergey Terentyev. Although at first it was just a guest musician, eventually joining the group definitivamente.Kipelov return to the side quickly, due to the threat of sanction MOROZ Records for breaking his contract. It would become the lead singer in the new album Aria, "Noch koroche dniya" (The Night is shorter than day), which was launched in September 1995. Centre Sergey Zadora as new manager, the band gave a series of concerts in Moscow and its surroundings, recording video Made in Russia. The video reached high positions in the charts.En 1997 Kipelov and Mavrin duo meet in the Dark Ages. Vitaly and Vladimir Dubinin Holstinin also recorded an album together titled avaria, 1998 by Vitaly voces.En Aria takes the "Generator Zia" (Builder of evil), where Terentyev debuts as composer. Later in 2001 the band recorded "Himera" (Chimera) and the single "Poteryannyy Ray" (Paradise Lost), reaching high positions in the Russian radio Nashe and uplifting the band to a new level of popularity. === "Judgment Day" === This album allows the group to perform at the prestigious Moscow Nashestvie festival, where the band played with a symphony orchestra. This gives an idea to the group to tour with an orchestra and release a live album. However, he never got to record, due to stress during the tour and the group rejects mánager.Kipelov another record with Aria, which was already composed and Holstinin Dubinin, and decides to pursue his solo career. Sergey Terentyev, Alexander Maniakin and group manager Rina Lee supported him, opposing the two leaders of the band and producer Yuri Sokolov. The tour with symphony orchestra becomes a farewell tour. After the concert of August 31, 2002 in Luzhniki, Moscow, called Judgment Day (later became the name for the conflict of this break), Kipelov, Terentyev and Maniakin leave Aria, and together form the Kipelov group. = the new face == Aria === Dispelling rumors that would Holstinin disover and form another group called Himera, in November 2002 a new onset of Aria is organized. Sergey Popov Master becomes the second guitarist, Arthur Berkut (ex-Autograph (Russian band)) is invited to be the new vocalist and drummer Max Udalov returns. On December 5 Aria Launches single "Kolisey" (Colosseum), followed by the album "Kreshchenie Ognyom" (Baptism of Fire) and video songs Kolisey.Las "Kolisey 'and' Kreshchnie ognyom" become number 1 in the charts, although many fans criticized him, not as they felt that Berkut's voice was ideal for Aria.En 2004 Berkut and Holstinin involved in Elven Manuscript metal opera, Epidemic. Arthur plays the old sorcerer Vladimir IRDIS and plays the lute and produces ópera.En 2005 Aria celebrates its 20th anniversary with a new tour. In it are invited former members of the band, and Sergey Mavrin Master. The Kipelov group does not participate because he was in his own gira.En 2006 published "Armageddon" (Armageddon), a new album this time under the seal of CD Maximum. For this album Aria invited two new lyricists and Berkut debuts as compositor.El April 3, 2008 and Mavrin Kipelov make a brief meeting with Aria to celebrate 20 years of recording their third album, 2009 publishing the Asfalta.En Geroy single "Pole Bitvy" (battlefield) as part of the preparation for their next album == Discography ==== Members === * ===== current Vladimir Holstinin (ru) -. guitarist (1985 - present) * Sergey Popov (ru) - guitar (2002 - present) * Vitaly Dubinin (ru) - bass, backing vocals (1987 - present) * Maxim Udalov (ru) - drums (1987-1988, 2002 - present) Past === = * == Alexander Lvov (ru) - drums (1985) * Andrey Bolshakov (ru) - guitar (1985-1987) * Alik Granovsky (ru) - bass (1985-1987) * Igor Molchanov (ru) - drums (1985 - 1987) * Kirill Pokrovsky (ru) - keyboards (1985-1987) * Sergey Mavrin (ru) - guitar (1987-1994) * Valery Kipelov (ru) vocals (1985-2002) * Aleksandr Maniakin (ru) - drummer (1988 -1995) * Sergey Terentyev (ru) - guitar (1995-2002) * Arthur Berkut (ru) - singer (2002-2011) ==== References == external Links == * official page * Aria in live Video Igra s Ognem of orchestral * Aria * Aria on MySpace.com on Last.fm in * Aria * Aria MetalStorm in MusicMight in * Ariya on RussMus.Net translation of lyrics into English Aria in Aria * Encyclopaedia Metallum in