Ceza (Turkish for 'punishment') is the most commercially famous and influential Turkish rapper. His albums have enjoyed the participation of many artists including Sezen Aksu, Candan Erçetin, Tech N9ne, Sagopa Kajmer, Dr. Fuchs, and his sister Ayben. His single titled Holocaust was part of the documentary Crossing the Bridge. Sound of Istanbul (20050) of direct Turkish-German Fatih Akin film and was part of the original soundtrack music == Career == Bilgin "Ceza" Özçalkan born the December 31, 1974. During his childhood, he borrowed many mixed hip hop tapes and friends. During this time, he published his first two albums and won several rap competitions throughout Turkey. In 1998, Bilgin joined Turkish producer and rapper Dr. Fuchs to form the group Nefret ("Hate"). At first, the group released many songs outside the commercial circuit and online. After having appeared several times in Turkish clubs, the group signed a contract with the German label Hammer Muzik. The debut album Nefret, Meclis-i-ala Istanbul, was released in 2000. Their simple Istanbul and in particular video promocioanl gained great exposure among followers of the Turkish rap. His second album, Anahtar ("Key") was released in 2001, but was not as successful. During his military service Dr. Fuchs, Bilgin prepared a solo album. This led several Djs noncommercial circuit mingle songs and focused on the innovative output of another artist Hammer Muzik, Sagopa Kajmer.En Medcezir 2002 released the album ("Ebb and Flow"), which was produced by DJ MicCheck aka Sagopa Kajmer and won the award for his biting social criticism and prose poetry in motion, even among those who did not follow the movement of Turkish rap. In 2004, Ceza released his fourth CD, entitled Rapstar which was partly produced by DJ Sagopa Kajmer MicCheck alias. This album has been a great success (150,000 CDs). The music video for the song "Rapstar" was aired on many TV channels in Turkey and had heavy rotation on stations Turkish radio. The album includes the contribution of Ayben sister, as well as other Turkish rappers Dr. Fuchs, Sagopa Kajmer, Sahtiyan, and Sweden världen Fjärde.La Fuat Ceza collaboration with Dr. Fuchs with Nefret group was instrumental in the advent of 'This hip hop' in Germany. When Ceza became increasingly popular, young Turkish immigrants in Germany are more identified with their roots and Turkish culture. The main change was "the refusal of the African American samples for the arabesque and Turkish pop" and this was "emblematic of the merger of black culture and Turkish culture in diaspora." Songs like Rapstar show this clear connection to Turkish sounds and rhythms. === 2006 === Launched their first maxi-single (EP / Hybrid Album) titled Feyz Al ("Take a form"). Relaunched its sixth album titled Yerli Plaka on September 5, 2006. On this album, Ceza he shares credit with the U.S. MC Tech N9ne, singer and songwriter Sezen Aksu, Samy Deluxe, Eko Fresh and Afrob German and Turkish MC Killa Hakan , who lives in Berlin. The music video for the song Yerli Plaka was recorded in Germany. === 2007 === Ceza won the MTV Europe award for best artist of Turkey on November 1, 2007. == Discography ==== References ==== external links ==