Chen Chia-Hwa (陈嘉桦, born June 18, 1981), more commonly known as Ella, which means "courage." This name was chosen by his record based on the results of a personality test. It is the oldest member of the Taiwanese female group SHE It is also known for his roles in dramas like hanakimi. == Career == Ella Chen finished high school but did not attend college because of his love and passion for canto.El 8 August 2000, the Taiwanese record label HIM International Music held a "Universal Female Talent and Beauty" for new artists to hire. When Ella Chen went on vacation to Taipei with his brothers, his older sister enrolled her in the competition without your knowledge. She was about to give up before the first round to see the long line of participants, and because of their fear of not fitting for her tomboy personality, but her sister convinced her to stay. The competition was attended by about 1,000 participants. After many rounds, Ella Chen came to the final round thanks to the unique depth of his voice, which caught the attention of the jury and differed from other competidoras.Una After the contest, he returned to his work in a local hospital, but received a call from the record company that was granted a hearing to each of the seven finalists, including the remaining members of SHE were also found. Though the original idea was to hire only one, the company eventually decided to hire three of the girls. Together, Selina Ren, Hebe Tian and Ella Chen formed the trio sheal tested for signing autographs, the employees were concerned that the record could easily copiársela because of its simplicity; so that, during the early days of SHE, Ella signed autographs using the last character of his name, "桦" (pinyin: hu à). However, as SHE's autograph sessions drew larger audiences, Ella reverted to use its simplest signature, inglesa.Durante his career with SHE, Ella has been the member more prone to accidents. On July 29, she was sent to the hospital for hip fracture after jumping from the third floor of a building as part of a public service video that explains proper procedures for fire escape. He was discharged after a stay of 23 days in the hospital of the National Taiwan University, to return to the promotion of Super Star, after which he went to his home in Pingtung for five months to recover. In 2005, during the filming of the drama Reaching For The Stars, Ella ears and hair with a candle burned down, so the crew took to the Hospital of the National Taiwan University. To recover, you missed the shoot for two days, during which he got about two inches of burnt hair on both sides of his head. == Picture == Ella Chen is an avid basketball player and usually play normally with other Taiwanese celebrities Jay Chou. She is known for her fun, easy and outgoing personality. In 2007, he was voted online by fans as the most modest of artists in Taiwan. Of the three components of S.H.E. She is the most talkative. Since the launch of the first disc of the SHE in 2001, she has been normally answered all questions from reporters. Being the whip of SHE, Ella is frequently the subject of jokes about his gender and sexual orientation, but normally elusive taunts. His unusually deep voice gave him his role as the voice of Arthur in the Mandarin version of Arthur and the Invisibles ``.'' However, despite the masculine image of her, has been named one of the most beautiful Taiwan . When she went to the 41st edition of the Golden Bell Awards for his nomination Reaching For The Stars surprised everyone wearing a sexy tube dress. His masculine appearance and outgoing personality makes people think that looks like a man, but in 2007, was voted the Number 1 Beauty in Taiwan for its unique natural beauty. An online survey revealed that fans believed she would be the hottest bikini, up Hei Hui's Xiao Xun is, Landy Wen, and even pop diva Jolin Tsai. == Personal life == She Chen is the third of four brothers, including two older sisters and a younger brother. She had a little dog named Qiang Qiang. Because of health problems, Qiang Qiang had to undergo surgery and died from an allergic reaction to anesthesia. Because of that she wrote the lyrics of a song dedicated to his dead pet. Recently released the EP and all proceeds will go to animal shelters == Discography == * Qiang Qiang (蔷 蔷) -. Single EP, released August 27, 2007 == Filmography Movies === * =====. Bad Girl (2012) * Perfect Two (2012) Abba (2011) TV Series ===== === external Links == * Ella Chen SHE ** Official chinesemov.com Blog (in Chinese)