Everyway that I can (in Spanish: "Any way you can") is the winning song of Eurovision Song Contest 2003, performed by Sertab Erener, written in English by Demir Demirkan and composed of both and Ozan Çolakoğlu, famous for his work with the Turkish pop idol Tarkan.Habiendo Sertab Erener previously chosen as a representative, TRT Turkish television participating in the Eurovision Song Contest, chose "Everyway that I can" as its their song for Eurovision. At first, the issue was the subject of controversy in Turkey by the fact that English Sertab sang his song and not in Turkish, as was customary until momento.La combines R & B song with traditional Turkish music, but, nevertheless, was not considered a favorite to win the festival. Big favorites were the Russian t.A.T.u. and act in Spanish Beth.Turquía fourth position after Mickey Harte Ireland and Malta before Lynn Chircop. Looking to the festival, had introduced change the music and steps were introduced belly dancing. During the voting, the final victory was hard fought, Sertab won just two points over Belgium thanks to the last vote of Slovenia. Also for the first time in history, Cyprus voted in Turkey giving them eight points, not having obtained those eight points, Turkey would have been third. == == International Hit The song was released at European level the following week of the festival. Was a great success across Eastern Europe and into the top 10 sales in Spain, Sweden, Austria, Belgium and Holland, and becoming double platinum in Greece selling over 20,000 copias.Poco after a video clip released the set in a palace of the Ottoman Empire in which Sertab appears in a rose garden and a bathroom turco.También song several versions of the song including a Turkish and dance version released. The song was included on the album No Boundaries Sertab and the official disc of the Festival of the Eurovision Song Contest 2003. == == After Eurovision Sertab performed his song at the Festival of the Eurovision Song Contest 2004 in Istanbul changing dancers by dancers. The song was also selected for the Congratulations, special gala celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Eurovision Song Contest, finishing as the ninth best song in the history of the festival. ==== References == External Links == * Song Lyric...