Jay Chou (traditional Chinese); 周杰伦 (Simplified Chinese); Zhōu Jielun (pinyin), musician, singer, producer, actor and director of Taiwan. In 1998 he was discovered in a school talent contest where he showed his singing and piano-writing. In the next two years, he was hired to compose for popular Chinese singers. Trained in classical music, combining musical styles to produce songs that fuse R & B, rock, and pop genres, covering issues such as domestic violence, war, and urbanization. In 2000, he released his first album titled "Jay" under the record company Alfa Music. Since then he has released one album per year, selling several million copies each. His music has gained recognition throughout Asia, especially in countries like China, Japan, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Vietnam, Taiwan, and overseas Chinese communities, winning more than 20 awards each year. He has sold over 25 million albums worldwide. In 2007, he was named one of the 50 most influential people in China by the British think tank Chatham House people. He starred in "Initial D" (2005) which won Best New Actor at the Golden Horse Awards and was nominated for Best Actor by Hong Kong Film Awards for his role in Curse of the Golden Flower in which he played the prince Jay (2006 ). His career now extends into directing and running his own record company JVR Music. == Biography == Born with the name Chou Chieh-Lun in Taiwan in 1979, Jay began playing the piano at age four. His mother supported his musical talent and continued to become a teacher of piano and cello. The music, songwriting, and basketball dominated his high school days, and was released for the first time in 1998 when a friend sang one of his compositions on a TV talent contest, accompanied by Jay on piano. Alfa Music launched Jay's career, first as a composer then as a singer. In 2000, his debut album "Jay" was his big shot several hits. His unique style with a fresh fusion of sounds with Eastern and Western traditions presenting hard lyrics and a personal style of storytelling. With his soulful voice and infectious tunes, his second album, "Fantasy" and five subsequent albums, have continued to win legions of fans young and old throughout Asia. It has been the best-selling Mandarin artist in the world during the past five years, with a busy schedule touring Asia and North America and several music awards in industria.Además of their music videos, Jay began film acting in a starring role in Initial D (2005), a comedy action hit in China. His role of Prince Jai, directed by noted Chinese filmmaker Zhang Yimou, can launch his acting career to rival his place as a pop star. == Early Stages Of Your Life == Jay Chou grew up in the small town of Linkou, Taiwan. His parents were secondary school teachers: his mother, Ye Hui Mei (traditional Chinese: 叶惠美; simplified Chinese: 叶惠美; pinyin: Yè huimei) (.. Name given to their 4th album released in 2003) who I teach fine arts while his father Zhou Yao Zhong (Chinese: 周耀 中, pinyin: Zhōu Yaozhong) was an instructor of biology. His mother noticed his sensitivity to music and took him to piano lessons at age 4. During his childhood, he was fascinated with capturing sounds and songs with his tape recorder, which he carried everywhere with him. In third grade, he became interested in music theory and also started cello lessons. As an only child, the family enjoyed being the center of attention; he loved to play piano, imitate TV actors, and perform magic. His parents divorced when he was 14; as a result, became introverted recluse. Although he had friends, often preferred to be alone, listening to music, contemplating and daydreaming. At Dan Jiang Senior High School, he majored in piano and minored in cello. He showed talent for improvisation, became fond of pop music and began to write canciones.Chou graduated from high school with inadequate grades for university, so he prepared for military service, which is compulsory for all Taiwanese men at the age of 18. However, a sports injury that caused unexplainable and severe back pain led to the diagnosis of ankylosing spondylitis, an inflammation of the spine, which is an inherited disease; as a result, he was exempted from conscription. Meanwhile, a job as a waiter he was found. Without his knowledge, his friend had entered both their names in a talent show called Super New Talent King. Although he did not win, the show's host Jacky Wu-un uninfluyente character who was in Taiwan in the entertainment industry, went look at the music of Chou and was impressed with its complexity. Wu hired him as a composer of a contract and paired with the fang rookie (Chinese: 方 文山; pinyin: Fāng Wenshan) In the next two years he wrote songs for artists of Chinese pop, and also learned recording and sound mixing; was so dedicated that even slept in the music studio. There were no plans to make him a singer because her mentor Wu thought he was too shy and did not have a good future. Wu's music studio was later sold to Alfa Music, and the new manager Yang Rong was who would miss the eye to Jay. Chou already had an arsenal of songs he wrote for others but had been rejected, so 10 songs for her debut CD "Jay" which was released in 2000 were chosen. The album established his reputation as a talented musical composer whose style it is a fusion of R & B, rap, classical music, and yet clearly Chinese. His fame spread quickly in countries like China and throughout Southeast Asia. Since 2000, Chou has released one album per year, has managed to sell several million copies and has been recognized with hundreds of awards. In 2003, it was the cover story of Time magazine (Asia version), its influence is recognized in popular culture. He has held two world tours, "The One" (2002), "Incomparable" (2004), performing in cities such as Taipei, Hong Kong, Beijing, Kuala Lumpur, Singapore, Las Vegas, and Vancouver. Unlike most singers, Chou has an enormous amount of creative control over his music. He is not only the songwriter but also the producer of all of their albums, from 2005 is also the music director and also directs his own videos (as we see in twilight's chapter seven) While continuing the release of an album a year, also entered film business with his debut role as the lead actor in Initial D (with the role of Prince Takumi), for which he won the best Newcomer at the Golden Horse Awards in 2005. the following year, was released Chou as a character important in "Curse of the Golden Flower" starring international Chinese stars Chow Yun-Fat and Gong Li, giving Chou his brief but formal hearings North American presentation. In February 2007, I finally fulfilled his child to be a director on "secret", in which he also played the main character dream. In March 2007, his 8-year contract with Alfa Music ended. Chou, director Yang Rong June and his lyricist Vincent Fang founded a new record company, JVR Music (which is an acronym for Jay, Vincent, Rong) through which Chou will continue his musical career and fulfill its objective of promoting new musical talents. == History ===== film === film career Chou formally entered the film industry in 2005 with the release of the movie Initial D (头 文字 D). He has since acted in three other movies including the GREEN HORNET in Hollywood, one movie and directed more than a dozen music videos. Chou, who once said "I live because of music", ventured into movies because he felt the need for a new challenge. As fans have grown concerned that movies compromise his music career, why Chou said repeatedly that movies are a source of inspiration and not a distraction and at the same time, he realizes the need to balance both careers and maintain their place in the field of music to get the crowd support Performance === === thumb |. Chou.La Jay Chou acting challenge was one of unexpected moves. In his high school, his English teacher thought he was capable of very few facial expressions, and the director of Hidden Track (2003, a movie in which Chou had a vital role) said that his strong individualistic personality will not make him a good actor. In 2005, Chou's first role as the lead actor in Initial D served two purposes: to launch his acting debut, and to increase his exposure to Japanese audiences. This film is based on the Japanese manga Initial D, where Chou played Takumi Fujiwara, a gifted touge athlete who is quiet and rarely shows expression. Some reviewers criticized his bland acting while others felt that it performed naturally, but only because the character's personality closely mirror their own. His performance in initial D won Best New Actor at the Golden Horse Awards and Hong Kong Film Awards. Jay's second film was "The Curse of the Golden Flower" (2006). To support character says much of the attention of Chinese reporters; Chou's involvement in this movie was announced in his press conference, separate from the meeting held for Chow Yun-Fat, Gong Li, and the other actors. Chou portrayed Prince Jai, the second major general prince, ambitious, and the Imperial army whose personality trait is summarized in the "Xiao" (孝) character, expressing "virtue of filial piety." Among the Chinese film critics comments about his performance ranging from "lacks complexity" to "acceptable," but was praised by critics for Western respondents. For her performance in Curse of the Golden Flower was nominated Best Supporting Actor in the Hong Kong Film Awards. For his third film, he is the lead actor and director of "The Secret." Another film, Kung Fu Dunk which premiered on February 7, 2008. Was an actor in 2011 in the new Green Hornet movie, "The Green Hornet" in English, as the loyal and skilled companion Hornet, Kato, who the original series of the 60s was played by Bruce Lee. === === Directing Jay acquired his first directing experience in 2004 through music videos. Initially experimented with a song by the group Nan Quan Mama titled "Home" (Chinese: 家; pinyin: jiā), where he was involved throughout the research process for editing. After learning the difficulties of being a director, he refused to direct again even at the request of his record company. However, his interest resurfaced again and has directed music videos for 4 of the 12 songs from his own album November Chopin in 2005, and later television advertisements. In 2006, he had taken responsibility for the screenwriting, directing, and editing of music videos for all his songs. It is unclear how the public evaluates its work since music videos are rarely the subject of examination crítico.En February 2007, Chou finally directed his first movie Secret. The story he wrote is based loosely on his relationship with a high school girlfriend, with a plot focused on music, love and family. He stars as protagonist and Kwai Lun-Mei, Hong Kong veteran actor Anthony Wong as Chou's father. Despite previous experience in filming music videos, Chou admits that movies are comparatively more difficult because of the history and time constraints. This film was taken off the air in July 2007. == Discography ===== Albums === * 周杰伦 同名 专辑 (Jielun zhuānjí) Jay 01/11/2000 * 范特西 (fàntèxī) Fantasy 20/09/2001 * 八度空间 (Badu kongjian) 19/07/2002 * the Eight Dimensions 叶惠美 (Yè huimei) Ye Hui Mei 31/07/2003 (album in honor of his mother, Ye Huimei) * 七里香 (qīlǐxiāng) Common Jasmin Orange 03/08/2004 * 十一月 的 萧邦 (shíyīyuèdexiāobāng) November's Chopin 依然 范特西 01/11/2005 * Still Fantasy - 我 很忙 05/09/2006 * 02/11/2007 * On the Run 魔 杰座 Capricorn 14/10/2008 * 18/05/2010 跨 时代 The Era * 11/11/11 * Exclamation Mark 十二 新 作 Opus12 EP === 28/12/2012 === * Plus 范特西 Fantasy (Fantasy EP MV VCD) (21 December 2001) * Nun-Chuks 双截棍 (April 9, 2002) * Hidden Track EP 寻找 周杰伦 EP (EP Ye Hui Mei MV VCD) (xúnzhǎo Zhōu Jielun, November 12, 2003) * Huo Yuan Jia 霍元甲 EP EP (EP November's Chopin MV DVD) (January 20, 2006) * Golden Armor 黄金 甲 EP EP (EP Still Fantasy MV DVD) (8 December 2006) Lives === === * The One Concert Live (Includes Eight Dimensions MV VCD) (28 October 2002) * 无与伦比 演唱 会 2004 Incomparable to Jay Concert Live (Includes Qi Li Xiang MV VCD) (21 January 2005) == external links == * Jay Chou @ ALFAmusic 阿尔 发 音乐 * Jay Chou @ Sony BMG Hong Kong...