The ney (also called nai, nye, nay) is a prominent flute music in the Middle East. It is a very ancient instrument, there are paintings of people playing the ney in the walls of the tombs of ancient Egypt and have been found in excavations of Ur neys This indicates that the ney has been played habitualamente during 4500-5000 years, making it one of the oldest musical instruments still in use. It is a precursor moderna.El ney flute is made from a piece of hollow cane or branch. It has five or six front holes and a hole for the thumb. Modern neys may be made from metal. The tone varies with the distribution of the fingers. Also varies depending on the region. A highly skilled musician with ney can reach more than three octaves, though it is more common to have several musicians playing the ney in a traditional orchestra to cover ranges diferentes.El ney is one of the simplest instruments one can draw. In the Persian ney reed meant, in the Arab world and the nay is sometimes called qassaba, literally piece of cane. The oldest form, shown in Egyptian tombs dating back 3,000 years or 2,500. C. It has since been the favorite instrument of Sufism due to the deep nature of their sound. == Etymology == The word "ney" comes from Pahlavi "ney" and in modern Persian "ney" meaning reed, which is what that the instrument is commonly made. == == different neys the ney is a tuned instrument. In the Arabic system, there are seven types of neys. The first is the Kerdene, tuned in C (the note C), and is the most length. This means that the second note after the lower register is a DO (the first would be a Bb or Bb). The second is the Doga nay tuned in D (D). The third in the Boussalik Mi (E). The fourth in the Jaharka Fa (F). The fifth in the Nawa Sol (G). The sixth Husseini in A (A) and seventh in the Ajam Si (B). In the Arab world the ney is traditionally used in pastoral areas, showing preference for smaller neys with higher pitches. Overall the tone is low in religious settings and escolásticos.En certain areas in the Arab world where Sufism, or music schools there, studied touch and lower registers. The Turks use even longer to have a preference for lower sounds neys. == Technique to play the ney == The Arabic and Turkish art are the same, this means putting your mouth on the tip of the flute and blowing in a somewhat oblique direction to the latter tube. The air rises on an inner side and produces the expected sound. Iran joined another method: they adopted the system of interdental blowing late 1700.El modern Persian ney has changed the system of the fingers and the number of nodes. It also has a different mouth, has only five front holes and a hole for the thumb placed lower than in Arab or Turkish models. In the interdental blowing musician puts the end of the ney in his teeth and upper jaw and directs the air with his tongue. This method produces quite a different texture to that produced by the bilabial articulation used for Arabic ney / turco.El Arabic and Turkish ney has seven holes (6 in Iran), one of which is located behind and usually covered with thumb . Each hole has substantially the capacity range of a tone, for example, if we wanted to play the note Re could easily go to a D-sharp with the only movement of the lips and the air force. With the thumb hole four notes are obtained. For example, in the ney "Doga" those notes would be La, Bb, Si 3/4 and Si.Independemente method, it takes years (some say a lifetime) to refine the sound of someone. Iranian method can be used with Arabic or Turkish ney. This increases the chances of different textures in the pleasant sound of the ney sonido.El calms the nervous system, reduces fatigue and is relaxing. It is associated with deep philosophical ideas == See also == * Kaval, a similar instrument of Macedonia and Bulgaria * Turkish Music == External Links == * NeyAtolye Ney Making Workshop -. * Neyzen.com Turkey - Web in English and Turkish on ney with the Apprenticeship courses, exercises, theory, etc. [[Category:. Sufism]...