thumb | right | 200pxÖmer Faruk Tekbilek (born 1951, Adana, Turkey), also known as Omar Faruk Tekbilek, is a Turkish composer and virtuoso flutist. He is known for his performances with the ney in sufi style, as well as for its fusion of traditional Middle Eastern music, mostly Turkish, with synthesizers I modernos.Honrado as peacemaker and virtuoso, Omar is currently one of the most sought-after musicians whose work traciende political boundaries while maintaining traditional sensibilities and develops the Middle East with great quality. == Biography == Omar Faruk Tekbilek was born and raised in Adana, a city in southern Turkey where Islamic culture mixed and Byzantine city border meeting point for philosophers, artists, actors and personalities of culture in general. The cultural offer was very large, so many of the great musicians visited Turks. His brother Hadji was a born musician, played the flute and was the first guide Faruk. Examined Kaval, a small diatonic flute, but soon became interested in other instruments. His first teacher was an uncle who had a shop of musical instruments. Went there in the afternoon, after school, and learned Baglama (Turkish long-necked lute), Turks complicated rhythms, scales, reading music and more. With twelve years he began acting professionally in some clubes.Paralelamente his musical studies he became interested in Sufism (mystical arm of Islam), and studied with the idea of wound to be a monk of this order, but fifteen he left school to devote himself entirely to music, but never stopped studying. Ensures that keep doing the music for it is the shortest path to God, "Play is like praying for me" asegura.Con seventeen went to Istanbul, where he met the Mevlevi Dervishes, one of the oldest Sufi orders Turkey did not get to enter the order, but had a great influence of his mystical spirit and sonido.Por aproximamiento that time also met the saxophonist Tonguch Burhan, who showed him new ideas about music theory. Everything was a rhythm instrument and everyone could be percussionist. Faruk began to be increasingly demanded by studies Estambul.Con twenty years made his first U.S. tour with a group of traditional Turkish music. It was on that tour that he met his wife. He had to return to Turkey to do his military service and could not return until 1976, he settled in New York, where opportunities for a Turkish musician were rather slim. I had to start working in a textile company, but formed a band with his brother called The Sultans. The original idea was that they were a pop band, but soon began to perform music of the Middle East, also joined the group an Egyptian keyboardist and a Greek musician rope. This group managed to record several albums, along the circle of belly dancers became interested in his music. For a few years it was hard to combine his work in the textile company during the week, with weekend performances in the clubs of New Oriental York.En 1988, he met Brian Keane, now his producer and collaborator, and he made his first international work, the soundtrack of the movie "Suleyman the Magnificent." Brian was commissioned to do the soundtrack, being a film about this great emperor and that his release would coincide with the opening of the exhibition on same theme at the Metropolitan Museum in New York. He thought to include Turkish singers and original instruments was important, so I began searching for musicians in this country who collaborate on the project. It was not easy, nobody could give him no information, so he began to frequent a club oriental dance was in Manhattan called Easy's. After several nights enduring a bad music for oriental dance, Faruk appeared. Then out among the other musicians, he could quickly realize that his playing was completely different and full of emoción.Para the film wanted a mix of traditional instruments with the sounds of synthesizers, traditional Turkish melodies and original music from him . So he talked to Faruk and remained in that pass his study for a test. It was a success, faruk brought other musicians and the soundtrack was soon acabada.Brian wanted to work with him, so he finally faruk devote himself to music. Together they have worked on five more CDS, exploring not only Turkish music, also Arabic and Armenian. Also Faruk is Egyptian and means feel an affinity to Arabic music, which differs in some important points turca.Actualmente continues his musical research and collaborates with other musicians, such as Palestinian oud player and violinist Simon Shaheen, percussionist and composer Michael Askill, Armenian percussionist Arto Tunçboyaciyan and Armenian Ara Dinkjian lauidsta. The latter two are partners in some of his last recordings. == Discography == * Suleyman The Magnificent (1988) * Fire Dance (1990) * Beyond The Sky (1992) * Fata Morgana (1994) Whirling (1994) Mystical Gardens (1996) * Crescent Moon (1998) * One Truth (1999) * Dance into Eternity (2000) * Alif (2002) * Tree Of Patience (2006) == external links == * http://www.omarfaruktekbilek. com /...