thumb | 220px | Detail arqueros.De Frieze of the Chaldeans, Assyrians and Persians Medo-known works of painting decorations glazed bricks (tiles) and also other relief and stucco murals. In all figures of people, animals, rosettes and palmettes drawn in the likeness of his sculptures or reliefs divisan technique. They are among the notables mentioned glazed bricks, the Palace of Nimrud (seventh century. C.) which is now in the British Museum, the Palace of Sargon at Khorsabad (eighth century. C.) and the famous Frieze lions and Frieze of archers from the Palace of Susa (fourth century. C.), now in the Louvre. Assyrians and Persians were also marked in the composition of geometric mosaic paving work and his knowledge there was imported to Europe as its ceramic esmaltada.En India, the walls of important buildings were decorated with colorful frescoes depicting various hunting scenes and processions in honor of Buddha and encouraged with enamel and polychrome statues and reliefs of divinities. Only the figures of animals and Buddha are treated in ancient India with some imitation of the natural representations that unfortunately mitológicas.En China and Japan are deprived cultured paint while hieroglyphic writing and calligraphic strokes for several centuries before the Christian era. Towards the beginning of this they began to paint the figures with enough sense of reality but occur almost always certain affectation of formula and race. Chinese artists are set in the outline of the drawing and the preocupándoles little or no chiaroscuro and linear perspective is characteristic of them in a table represent all variations of a scene, repeating the figures of the characters in action. They are very old famous paintings on porcelain (perhaps since the beginning of our era) with typical drawings of foliage and other strange figures. The oldest painting in Japan, among the known, dating from the seventh century was cristiana.Véase also: * Medo-Persian Sculpture == References == The content of this article incorporates material Archaeology and Fine Arts, 1922, from Naval and Ayerbe Francisco, which is in the public domain....