thumb | 150px | Iranian painting in the seventeenth century showing a woman playing riq.El riq tambourine is a small Arab origin; one membranophone instrument is actually a tambourine round consists of a wooden frame covered with skin on one side, and in some cases this is usually decorated with henna paint. The larger tambourine called daf.Se used in Azerbaijan, Armenia, Egypt, Syria, Lebanon, Iraq, Iran and Turkey mainly. In antiquity it was a unique instrument for women and it was executed in dances and religious ceremonies, songs and folk dances. Approximately riq is 20 cm in diameter and 6 cm high; has a leather patch goat or fish that is stretched over a wooden frame, which is usually decorated with inlaid mother of pearl. The riq has 10 pairs of jingles bronze (sagats in Arabic) of approximately 6 cm in diameter uniformly distributed around the casement riq is especially valued for the variety of sounds that can occur depending on the virtuosity with which the musician run. Until the mid-twentieth century it was common for the riq were the only percussion instrument in orchestras but in the mid-60s with the addition of the darbuka or table and other percussion instruments the riq was losing ground. For this reason, musicians adopted another technique when run which consists accentuate the sound of rattles over the sound of the patch to bring back to stand on ritmo.El riq is mainly used in classical Arabic music and is which sets the pace of the track. An example are the songs of Egyptian singer Umm Kalzum == Technical == The riq is held with one hand which waves frame in order to sound rattles.; with the other hand the patch either with fingers or palm strikes. The most talented musicians playing with rattles and fingers touching the frame of the instrument in order to further enrich the pace as would the darbuka. The two main sounds are the "dum" and "tock" and can perform basic rhythm to accompany the darbuka or improvise and also stand out from the other percussion instruments. == == Although evolution of the instrument patches fish leather or goat is most valued for its natural sound, the main problem is that they are very sensitive to moisture and can easily lose their tension. Because of this problem the musicians had to heat their riqs moments before running to moisture absorbed dry patch and recover the voltage adecuada.A late '80s Patch riq was replaced by a sheet of plastic, Mylar generally similar to that used in the patches of the batteries (Musical Solo Instrument). This change resulted initially rejected by professional musicians but was finally adopted by a large number of them, transforming virtually standard to these días.Actualmente some modern riqs are made of aluminum or fiber replaces wood frame construction for achieving very harmonious, besides pertimir easy replacement and adjustment instruments patches. Today the best riq is manufactured by Kevork Kazandjian in Lebanon; it combines the sound, ergonomics, aesthetics, and functionality. == =='s heir Adufe Portuguese Arabic tambourine, introduced in the Iberian peninsula between the eighth and twelfth centuries. It is a square tambourine bimembranófono carrying seeds or small to enrich the sound rattles. The sides of the frame are approximately 45 inches. The tambourine is held with the thumbs of both hands and the right index and leaving the other fingers free for percutir.Se essentially in the center-east of Portugal (Castelo Branco district), where he was executed exclusively women, accompanying the singing especially during festivals and romerías.En oral tradition, specifically the verses of some songs that are accompanied by the tambourine, refer to the wood of the instrument as "orange stick". This, admittedly symbolic relationship between the blossom and marriage is reinforced by another feature of the construction of the instrument, which refers to the skin is a membrane of a male animal and the other of a female animal. SAY adufe tocadoras of the reason for this diversity is reflected in the harmony of the instrument and the way it sounds. This testimony gives clues to the magical iconography linked to the instrument, its construction and even use that traditionally was reserved for female performers. Also its square, by hindering the maintenance of the stretched skin, raises questions about the symbolic nature of the instrument and accentuates its uniqueness relative to Arab bendir or "bodrum", your Celtic congener. == External Links == * Information árabear music: رق ca: Riqde: Riqen: Riqfa: دف fr: Riqqit: Riqqja: リック (打 楽 器) ru: Гавал (музыкальный инструмент)