Sibel Tüzün (born September 29, 1971 in Turkey) is a famous Turkish singer. == Life and career == Sibel began his musical studies at the Children's Choir of the TRT Istanbul. During his high school years he joined the Youth Choir of the TRT he met Gökçen Koray, and Hikmet Akin Cenan Şimşek.Mostró interest in pop and rock music in his years at Beşiktaş Atatürk Anadolu Lisesi, culminating in a third place in the Song Festival of Turquía.En school students in 1988, he enrolled at the University of Istanbul, a famous music conservatory. In 1991, he decided to start a professional music career and signed a contract with record Raks Müzik.Su first solo album Ah Kızlar Biz was launched in 1992. The following year he began an intensive tour to promote it. After working with Robert Bricknell in London for a while, returned to Turkey, and successfully launched their second album, Keser Nefes Aşklaren 1995.Tras finish their European tour in 1997, Sibel started his own production company, Arinna Muzik. His album Ben Yokum Bu Hayat Buysa Yolda was launched in 1998 with eight songs written by the artist herself. This album showed the talent to produce Sibel, making it increasingly more complete artist. Its continental fame was sealed with Song Yine Yalnızım in 2002, together with her boyfriend Serhat Merdivenci.En 2003, started selling his fifth studio album titled Kırmızı, a new album and fraught with new sounds in order to be a pioneer in your country singer. Unfortunately, this album was not successful, so they began looking for Sibel opportunities in other countries to develop as artista.Su sixth album, which contained Kıpkırmızı translated into Greek songs and remixes of his earlier work was released in 2004 and possibly contributed to the bankruptcy of their record company. It was at that moment when Sibel departed from his career and announced that it would take some time off after the birth of his first hijo.Sibel was working on a new album, Satin, which failed to go on sale in your physical version , and was only available on digital download. The album failed to sell more than 5,000 copies. The disc also going to be released for sale in Asia in 2005 with the title Satin, which the simple Seviyorum Seveceğim be extracted, but due to participation in the Festival of the Eurovision Song Contest 2006, the launch is not realizó.En 2006 represented Turkey in the Eurovision Song Eurovision based in Athens with the song Süper Star also recorded this song in English and Greek occasion to promote and promote the song in other European countries. Sibel song failed to gain public support, and was ranked number 11 in the famous competition. What is not insured Turkey assured the end of the year siguiente.Actualmente Festival pass, Sibel is working on his new studio album, the already extracted two singles by way of promotion. Telefonu and Yaz Aski AC = = Discography ===== Albums === * Ah Kızlar Biz (1992) * Nefes Asklar Keser (1995) * Ben Yokum Bu Hayat Buysa Yolda (1998) * Yine Yalnızım (2002) * Kırmızı (2003) * Kıpkırmızı (2004 ) * Satin (2006) === Singles === * Seviyorum Seveceğim (2005) * Süper Star (2006) * Aç Telefonu (2008) * Yaz Aski (2008)