Svyashchénnaya voyna (Свящéнная войнá in Russian, Holy War, in Spanish), was one of the most famous songs of the Great Patriotic War, during the time of the Soviet Union. The lyrics were written by Vasily Lebedev-Kumach during the first days of the invasion of the Soviet Union by the German army. The composer of the music was Aleksandr Aleksandrov, founder of the Red Army Choir and composer of the National Anthem of the Union Soviética.La letter Vasili Lebedev-Kumach was posted on June 24, 1941 in Krasnaya Zvezda newspaper and Izvestia. One day later, on June 25, Aleksandr Aleksandrov wrote the music and the song was performed for the first time the next day, June 26, 1941, at the railway station Bielorusski Moscow by the Red Army Choir, to encourage soldiers leaving for the war front. The song was quickly accepted among the troops; however, only was broadcast on 15 October of the same year, after huge losses in the war, because the authorities thought that the letter was grim and tragic. The melody sounds like touch of disputes and calls the Holy War of the entire nation against their invasores.En the first decade of the century, Svyaschénnaya voyna still valued as an anthem of war, resistance and retribution sacred. == Lyrics ====== The original text in Russian ==== Вставáй, странá огрóмная, Вставáй на смéртный бойС фашистской силой тёмною, С проклятою ордóй. (Припев 2x) Пусть ярость благорóднаяВскипáет, как волнá! Идёт войнá нарóдная, Свящéнная войнá ! Пусть ярость благорóднаяВскипáет, как волнá! Идёт войнá нарóдная, Свящéнная войнá! Дадим отпóр душителямВсех плáменных идéй, Насильникам, грабителям, Мучителям людéй! (Припев) Пусть ярость благорóднаяВскипáет, как волнá! Идёт войнá нарóдная, Свящéнная войнá! Не смéют крылья чёрныеНад Рóдиной летáть, Поля её враг смéет простóрныеНе топтáть! (Припев) Пусть ярость благорóднаяВскипáет, как волнá! Идёт войнá нарóдная, Свящéнная войнá! Гнилой фашистской нéчистиЗагóним пулю в лоб, Отрéбью человéчестваСколóтим крéпкий гроб! (Припев 2x) Пусть ярость благорóднаяВскипáет, как волнá! Идёт войнá нарóдная, Свящéнная войнá! Пусть ярость благорóднаяВскипáет, как волнá! Идёт войнá нарóдная, Свящéнная войнá! ==== ==== Vstavái The phonetic transcription, ogrómnaia Strana, vstavái smértnii Boi na S fashístskoi síloi tiómnoius proklyátoyu ordói.Pust 'Yarost 'blagoródnayaVskipáet, Volna kak! Idiot Narodnaya Voina, Voina svyashchénnaia! Pust' Yarost 'blagoródnaya Vskipáet, Volna kak! Idiot Narodnaya Voina, svyashchénnaia Voina! Dadím Otpor dushíteliamvsekh plámennij Idei Nasíl'nikam, grabíteliam, muchíteliam liudéi! Pust' Yarost 'blagoródnayaVskipáet , kak Volna! Idiot Narodnaya Voina, svyashchénnaia Voina! sméiut Krilia Ne chórnienad Ródinoi letat 'polya tio prostórniene smeet vrag toptát'! Pust 'Yarost' blagoródnayaVskipáet, Volna kak! Idiot Narodnaya Voina, Voina svyashchénnaia! Gnilói fashístskoi néchistiZagónim púliu v lob, Otréb'iu chelovéchestvaskolótim krépkii grob! Pust 'Yarost' blagoródnayaVskipáet, Volna kak! Idiot Narodnaya Voina, Voina svyashchénnaia! Pust 'Yarost' blagoródnaya Vskipáet, Volna kak! Idiot Narodnaya Voina, svyashchénnaia Voina! ==== free translation to Spanish == Arise == colossal country! Arise for mortal combat against the dark fascist force against the Thundering Herd. (Chorus 2 times) What a noble furiahierva like waves! This is the people's war, a war sacred! furiahierva That noble as the waves! This is the people's war, a holy war! Repeleremos to estranguladoresde the ardientes.Violadores ideas, looters, torturers of mankind. (Chorus) That as a noble furiahierva waves! This is the people's war, a holy war! dark osaránvolar no wings on the Motherland. camposel And his vast enemy dare not trample! (Chorus) That a noble furiahierva like waves! This is war village, a sacred! a rotting filth fascistale war'll put a bullet in the forehead. to the dregs of humanity, forge a strong coffin (Chorus 2 times) What a noble furiahierva like waves! This is people's war, a holy war Let noble furiahierva like waves This is the people's war, a holy war == References == * Saint war -! Collection of Traditional music Soviet (site in Russian) * The Great Patriotic War with subtitles in Spanish * RussMus.net - Lyrics Svyaschénnaya voyna.