Victoria Kamhi Arditti was a Turkish pianist and writer of the twentieth century, based in Spain, wife and inseparable partner of Spanish composer Joaquín Rodrigo. == Biography == Born in Istanbul (Turkey), on the Bosphorus, 1902. Descendant of Sephardic Jews, his family belonged to the Turkish high bourgeoisie. His father was Ottoman and Viennese mother. He received a fine education. Amateur from very young, began studying piano with the Hungarian Geza Hegyey disciple of Liszt, continuing with various teachers such as Polish-Argentine Jorge de Lalewicz in Vienna. He then lived in Switzerland and Paris. After World War II his family loses all his fortune. However, their training continues in Paris with Lazare Lévy or Spanish Ricardo Vines, who learned Spanish repertoire. In 1928 he heard a work of Joaquin Rodrigo, "Prelude to morning rooster." In 1929 he met the Spanish composer: to meet hosts a party to which it is invited; fail of the evening to play the piano some works Musician Sagunto. They would marry in Valencia, Spain, on January 19, 1933. Lived in France and Germany until 1939, when the Second World War they started. During this stay they had a first child, who was stillborn, prompting the composition by the master of his famous Concierto de Aranjuez, also inspired by a visit to Aranjuez both had done to this city in 1933, during his honeymoon. the pianist left her career to attend throughout the Spanish composer, blind from childhood, being your best artistic collaborator. She selected the topics for one of his best known works, "Fantasy for a gentleman," based on themes of Aragonese composer Gaspar Sanz, and reviewed all manuscripts of Rodrigo. Polyglot, did the French and German versions of almost all the songs of her husband. In 1986 published a biographical work, Led by Joaquin Rodrigo: The Story of Our Lives (.. 2nd ed 1995), translated into English under the title Hand in hand with Joaquín Rodrigo: My Life at the Maestro's side (1992). He also wrote several poems in his ill-fated lenguas.Tras first child, had one daughter, Cecilia, born in January 1941, who later married the violinist Agustín León Ara and today is the successor to the Marquis of the Gardens of Aranjuez, awarded the Master in 1991 [http://www.geneall.net/H/per_page.php?id=113197]. Victoria Kamhi died on July 21, 1997, about two years before her husband, both being buried in the family mausoleum of Aranjuez, chaired by a cubist guitar sculptor Pablo Serrano. Joaquín Rodrigo had dedicated the work "Serranilla. Song of the wife, for soprano and chamber orchestra. "In June 2012 opened in Aranjuez (in which locality has also dedicated a street) a nursery school that bears his name. == == * Works Hand in hand with Joaquín Rodrigo: History of our life, ed. Joaquín Rodrigo, SA, Madrid, 1995 (2. ª ed. Of 1986), ISBN 978-84-88558-14-5. * Poems (in several languages) * "Song of the Cuckoo", 1937, (the Joaquin Rodrigo put music) == external Links == * Rodrigo Victoria Kamhi. Biographical video in collaboration with the Victoria and Joaquín Rodrigo, Buenos Aires, 2011 * Biography * English Wikipedia Foundation in Victoria Kamhi interview in El Pais Sevilla, August 31, 1988 * Street dedicated in Aranjuez == References ==...