The Age of Spiritual Machines (The Age of Spiritual Machines) a book by Ray Kurzweil (1998) of philosophical content, technology, and computer scientist who talks about the history of evolution and its relationship to the natural life and technology is and the role of man in the history of this latter one and computing and the future of this in its evolution towards man-relationship máquina.El book is divided into three parts and an epilogue, and the role of the evolution described . technological * part 1: disclosed is the concept of the theory of evolution and its application in both human and artificial intelligence. This is understood the exponential nature of time in accordance with Moore's Law, through the history of mankind, thus, lead to the formation of a new intelligence on Earth * Part 2:. Was implied how is this human limitation in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries and the role of the calculations and processed data in man and computer, as well as technological advances that open new avenues for human-machine integration, but also gives the light the implications and limitations of computers in social contact with humanity in 1999 * 3rd party. future developments in computing and its application to man, applicable to the hundred years after 1999; This will be demonstrated with facts (a prediction mode, explained by the author) that the computer be inalienable part of humanity but not without discussion of various kinds in all aspectos.El epilogue contains a reflection on the role of laws of evolution in the field of artificial intelligence and a possible target of intelligence in controlling universo.Aunque the author has written the whole book and is partly explained personally by Kurzweil, not surprising conversation throughout the content of the book as an interview with a fictional character who is probably the author himself, which reveals his name at the end (Molly) == Predictions successive advances in technology ===== 2009. - 2018 === * People mainly use laptops, which will have become dramatically lighter and thinner than a decade earlier. Personal computers are available in many sizes and shapes, and are often housed in clothing and jewelry like watches, rings, earrings, and other ornaments. Computers with a visual interface High resolution vary from rings, pins and credit cards to the size of a thin book. * People will typically have at least a dozen computers on and around their bodies, which will be connected by LAN . These computers provide similar facilities to mobile phones, pagers and browsers provide automatic identity (to conduct business transactions and allow entry into secure areas), navigation directions, * and various other services. For most, these PCs will not have true moving parts. The memory will be completely electronic, and most personal computers do not have keyboards. * Rotating memories (hard drives, CD-ROM, DVD) will be on the way out, although these magnetic memories are still used in computer servers with large amounts of stored information. Most users will have servers in their homes and offices that store large amounts of digital "objects", including its software, databases, musical documents, movies, and virtual reality environments (though they will still be in a stage early development). Services will maintain their own digital objects in central repositories, although most people prefer to keep their private information under their own physical control. * The cables begin to fade. Communication between components, such as pointing devices, microphones, displays, printers, and the occasional keyboard, use short distance wireless technology. * Computers routinely include wireless technology to connect to a pervasive global network, providing high-bandwidth communication instantly available and reliable. Digital objects such com books, music albums, movies and software is rapidly distributed as data files through the wireless network, and typically will lack a physical object associated with them. * Most of the text is created using recognition software continuous voice (CSR), but still use keyboards. The CSR is very accurate, far more than the transcribers used only a few years earlier. * Also be everywhere language user interfaces (LUI), which combine CSR and natural language understanding. For routine tasks, such as simple business transactions and information requests, the LUI will be quite sensitive and accurate. They tend to be, however, tightly focused on specific tasks. They are often combined with animated personalities. Interacting with an animated to make a purchase or to make a reservation will be like talking to a person by video, except for the fact that the person will be simulated personality. * The computer screens will all the visual qualities of paper to high resolution, high contrast, wide viewing angle and no flicker. Books, magazines and newspapers are now routinely read on displays that will be the size of, for example, small books. * Screens will also be used in glasses. These special glasses allow users to see the normal visual environment while creating a virtual image will look like stand in front of them. These virtual images are created by a small laser mounted inside the goggles that will project images directly onto the retina of the user. * The speakers are replaced by very small devices based on microprocessors that can create high quality three-dimensional sound. This technology is based on creating audible frequency sound created by the interaction of very high frequency tones. As a result, very small speakers can create a very strong three-dimensional sound. * A $ 1,000 personal computer (1999) you can make about a thousand trillion calculations per second. Supercomputers have hardware that will match at least the capacity of the human brain (20 trillion calculations per second). Collect unused computers on the Internet, creating virtual supercomputers in parallel with the hardware capacity of the human brain * There will be a growing interest in the massive parallel neural networks, genetic algorithms and other computational complexity or chaotic theories.; however most of the calculations of computers still made by the conventional sequential process, although some limited parallel processing. * We have started the research on reverse engineering of the human brain by means of destructive scans of the brains of individuals which died recently and noninvasive scans using magnetic resonance imaging of living persons. * The creation of autonomous machines created by nanoengineering (ie machines built atom by atom and molecule by molecule) have been demonstrated and include their own computational controls. However, nanoengineering is not even considered a practical technology. * Although schools will not even last generation, the great importance of the computer as a tool of knowledge is widely recognized. Computers play a central role in all facets of education, as in other spheres of life. * Most reading will be on screens, although the "installed base" of paper documents is still awesome. The generation of paper documents is dwindling, however, as the books and other documents of the twentieth century are quickly scanned and stored. Documents often carry around 2009 embedded moving images and sounds. * Students of all ages will typically own computer, it will be like a graphic tablet weighing about a pound with a very high visual resolution, suitable for reading. Students interact with their computers primarily by voice and pen like device. Keyboards still exist, but most of the textual language is created with the voice. Educational materials will be accessed via wireless communication. * Intelligent computer courses will have emerged as a common way of learning. Recent controversial studies have shown that students can learn basic skills such as reading and mathematics with interactive software as easily as with human teachers, particularly when the proportion of students regarding human teachers is greater than one to one. Although studies have been attacked, most students and their parents have accepted this concept for years. The traditional way of a human teacher instructing a group of children will still somewhat prevalent, but schools are increasingly based on software approaches, leaving human teachers to primarily address issues such as motivation, psychological well-being and socialization. Many children learn to read on their own using their personal computers before entering elementary school. * The preschool and primary education routinely read their intellectual level sotware conversion using text to speech before learning to read. These systems read a complete picture of the documents, and can read the text aloud while highlighting what you read. Synthetic voices sound completely human. Although some educators in the early twenty-first century expressed concern that students might rely excessively on reading software, such systems have been readily accepted by children and their parents. Studies have shown that students improve their reading skills when exposed to visual presentation of text and audio sync. * Distance learning (eg, classes and seminars in which participants are geographically dispersed) is a common . * the start learning to become a significant part of most jobs. Training and development of new skills begin to emerge as a current liability in most races, and not just an occasional supplement, as the skill level required for meaningful employment increase more and more. * People with disabilities begin to quickly overcome their disadvantages through smart technology, 2009. Struggling students routinely reading will lessen your disability by reading systems converter text to speech. * Convertion machines read text to speech for the blind will now very small, cheap, the size of the palm of your hand, and you can read books (those that still exist in paper format) and other printed documents, and other real-world texts such as signs and displays. These reading systems are equally adept at reading the trillions of electronic documents to be instantly available through the ubiquitous global wireless network. * After decades of ineffective attempts, useful navigation devices that may assist the blind will be introduced to avoid physical obstacles in its path, and guided, using the technology of global positioning system (GPS). A blind person can interact with their personal reading and navigation systems through a two-way voice communication, as a guide dog who reads and speaks. * Deaf or hard of hearing people often take the machines that translate text voice showing a real-time transcription or an animated person gesturing in sign language. They have eliminated the main problem of communication associated with hearing loss, and may also translate what is being said into another language in real time, so that frequently used people with hearing too. * We have introduced orthotic devices controlled by computer. These "walking machines" allow paraplegics to walk and climb stairs. Prosthetic devices still will not be useful for all paraplegics because many disabled people physically present joints with years of disuse. However, the advent of this technology will encourage further substitution of these joints. * There will be a growing perception that blindness, deafness and physical impairment does not occur disadvantages. Disabled described their disabilities as mere inconveniences. Smart technology will have become the great leveler of possibilities. * Technology telephone translation (where you speak in English and Japanese friends in Japanese you hear you and vice versa) is commonly used for many language pairs. Be a routine capability of a personal computer, which also serve as a phone. * Telephone communication will be primarily wireless, and typically include high resolution images in motion. Meetings of all types and sizes among geographically separated participants will occur. * There will be an effective convergence, at least in terms of hardware and related software, all media, they exist as digital objects (ie, files) distributed by the ubiquitous global network of wireless broadband communications. Users can instantly download books, magazines, newspapers, television, radio, movies, and other forms of software for their devices highly portable personal communication. * Virtually all communication is digital and encrypted with public keys available to government authorities. Many individuals and groups, including but not limited to criminal organizations use an additional layer of encryption code without virtually indecipherable keys to another. * Touch technology will appear and allow people to touch and feel objects and other people at a distance. These devices force feedback and be used in simulation games and training systems. * Interactive games normally include immersive visuals and sound environments, though still not available a satisfactory touch immersive environment. The chat channels in the late 1990s have been replaced by virtual environments where people can have appointments with full visual realism. * People will remotely sexual experiences with other people and with virtual peers. However, the lack of a surround environment touch virtual sex be kept away from the mainstream. Sexual partners will be popular as forms of sexual entertainment, but will be more games like that to something real. And phone sex is much more popular now than phones usually include high resolution and moving images in real time to the person on the other side. * Ignoring occasional corrections, the ten years leading up to 2009 have seen an economic expansion and prosperity continuous because of the dominance of the cultural content of products and services. The biggest gains will continue to be in market values. Deflation Economists worry the early twenty-first century, but soon checked it was something positive. The high-tech community indicate that significant deflation had existed previously in the industries of software and hardware for many years without detriment. * United States will remain the economic leader due to its primacy in the popular culture and business environment. Since information markets will be major world markets, the U.S. will have benefited greatly from their immigrant history. Be understood by all peoples of the world (especially the descendants of peoples of the world had faced a high risk for a better life) will be the perfect legacy for the new knowledge-based economy. China have also emerged as a strong economic power. Europe is years away from Japan and Korea regarding embrace the emphasis on the U.S. venture capital, booking options of employees, and tax policies that encourage businesses, but these practices have become popular throughout the world. * at least half of all transactions are conducted online. * intelligent assistants that combine continuous speech recognition, natural language understanding, problem solving, and animated personalities will help usually find information, answer questions, and conduct transactions. These assistants will have become a predominant interface to interact with information-based, with a wide range of options available services. * Most purchases of books, music albums, videos, games, and other forms of software not imply a physical object, so that new business models have emerged to distribute these forms of information. One buy these information objects 'wandering' by virtual malls, testing and selecting objects of interest, performing a transaction quickly and safely online, and then quickly downloading information via wireless high-speed communication. There will be many types and gradations to access these products. You can "buy" a book, a music album, video, etc.., Giving you permanent access to the user. Alternatively, you can rent access to read, watch or listen to once or several times. O access can be rented during each minute that passes. Access may be limited to one person or a group of people (eg a family or a company). Or access will be limited to a particular computer, or any computer used by a particular person or a group of people. * There will be a strong tendency towards geographic separation of the working groups. People work together despite living and be in different places. * The average home will have over a hundred computers, most of which are housed in appliances and built-in communication systems. Domestic robots have appeared, but are not yet fully accepted. * There will be intelligent roads, mainly for long distance travel. Once the systematic guide automotive computer sensors fixed in control of these highways, one can sit back and relax. Local roads, however, are still predominantly conventional. * A company of eastern Mississippi and north of the Mason-Dixon line will be exceeded one trillion dollars in the capital market. * The privacy have become a major political issue. The almost constant use of communication technologies begin to leave a very detailed record of every move made by each individual trace. The proceedings, which will be a great deal, have placed some restrictions on the wide distribution of personal data. Government agencies, however, continue to have the right to access the files of individuals, which have resulted in the appearance among the population of technologies invulnerable encryption. * There will be a growing neo-Luddite movement, as the skill ladder continues to grow rapidly. As with most ancient Luddite movement, its influence is limited by the level of prosperity made possible by technology. The movement achieved establish continuing education as a fundamental right associated with employment. * There will be continuous for a submerged class in which the skills ladder has been left behind concern. The size of this class appear to be stable, however. It will not be politically popular, this class will be politically neutralized by public assistance and the generally high level of prosperity. * High quality of computer screens, and software facilities of computer assisted visual rendering, have caused the display computer is an opportunity for visual art. Most visual art is the result of collaboration between human and intelligent software artists art. Virtual paint (high resolution screens hung on the wall) will have become popular. Rather than always showing the same work of art, or a conventional paint or smart poster, these virtual paintings can change the work displayed with a verbal command from the user, or may change cyclically through art collections. This may relate to works created by human artists or original art created in real-time cyber art software. * Human musicians mix with cyber. Creating music will be made available to persons who are not musicians. Creating music does not necessarily require fine motor coordination of the use of traditional controllers. Cyber music creation systems allow people who appreciate music but have no musical knowledge or practice create music in collaboration with its automatic software composition. The interactive music generated by the brain, which will create a resonance between the brain waves of the user and the music you hear, is another popular genre. * Musicians use common form of electronic controllers that emulate the playing style of the old acoustic instruments (for example, piano, guitar, violin, percussion), but there will be a surge of interest in new drivers 'air' in which music can be created by moving the hands, feet, mouth, and other body parts. Other drivers will involve interaction with devices designed * Writers use word processing voice-activated.; grammar checkers will now be useful; and distribution of written material from articles to books usually do not involve paper and ink. Software for improving the automatic editing style and is widely used to improve the quality of writing. It will also be widely used language translation software to translate works into many languages. However, the central process of creating written language will be less affected by the technologies of intelligent software that visual and musical arts. However, 'cyber' authors start appearing. * Beyond music recordings, images, and movie videos, the object type will be most popular digital entertainment software virtual experience. These interactive virtual environments allow the descent of virtual rivers, ride gliding through the Grand Canyon, or having an intimate encounter with the favorite movie star. Users also experience fantasy environments without equivalent in the physical world. The visual and auditory experience of virtual reality will be compelling, but still touch interaction is limited. * In war, the security of computing and communication will be the primary focus of the Department of Defense of the United States. It is generally recognized that the side can maintain the integrity of their computing resources dominate the battlefield. * Humans generally be far away from the battle scene. The war will be dominated by unmanned intelligent airborne devices. Many of these flying weapons are the size of small birds, or smaller. * The United States will remain the dominant military power in the world, which will be widely accepted by the world, as most countries will focus in economic competition. Military conflicts between nations are rare, and most conflicts are between nations and small bands of terrorists. The greatest threat to national security come from biological weapons. * Treatments for biomedical engineering conditions have reduced the cancer, heart disease and many other health problems. They have made significant progress in understanding the basis of information processing of the disease. * Telemedicine is widely used. Doctors can examine patients using the visual, audio and tactile examination distance. Health clinics with relatively inexpensive equipment and a technician only provide health care in remote areas where physicians were previously scarce. * Pattern recognition based computer normally used to interpret visual data and other diagnostic procedures. The use of noninvasive visual technologies have substantially increased. Diagnosis usually involve collaboration between a physician and an expert human pattern recognition system. * Doctors routinely consult knowledge-based systems (usually via a two-way voice communication with images) which will provide an automatic guide access to the latest medical research, and practice guidelines. * the records of a lifetime will be kept in computer databases. Concerns about access to these stories (as with many other databases personal information) will be emerged as an important issue. * Doctors will be trained in virtual reality environments, which include a touch interface. These systems simulate the visual, auditory and tactile experience of medical procedures, including surgery. Simulated patients will be available for continuing medical education for medical students and for people who simply want to play at being doctors. * There will be a renewed interest in the Turing test, which was proposed by Alan Turing in 1950 as a way checking the intelligence in a machine. Though computers still fail in the test, grow in confidence they pass in one or two decades. * There will be much speculation about the potential ability to feel (ie, consciousness) of the computer-based intelligence. The increasingly apparent intelligence of computers have stimulated interest in philosophy 2019 === -.. 2028 === * A $ 1,000 computer will have as much raw power as the human brain * The sum of the computational power of all computers will be comparable to the total brain power of the human race. * Computers will be housed in the environment (inside furniture, jewelry, walls, clothing, etc..) * People will experience virtual reality in three dimensions by glasses and contact lenses that project images directly onto the retina (display (display) retinal). Coupled with an auditory source (headphones), users can telecommute with others and access the Internet. * These special glasses and contact lenses may provide "augmented reality" and "virtual reality" in three different ways. First, they may project 'views directors' (HUD) through the user's visual field, overlapping images that remain fixed in the environment regardless of the user's perspective or orientation. Second, virtual objects or people could be rendered by the glasses at fixed locations, so that when the user's eyes look upon the other hand, the objects remain in place. Third, the devices could completely block the real world and fully immerse the user in a virtual reality environment. * People communicate with their computers via a two-way dialogue and gestures instead of keyboards. Moreover, most of this interaction occur through computerized assistants with different personalities that the user can select or customize. Interacting with computers is therefore becoming more like humans relate. * Most business transactions or inquiries involve dealing with a simulated person. * Most people possess more than a personal computer, although the concept of what a "computer" has changed considerably: computers are no longer limited in design laptops or CPUs contained in a large box connected to a monitor.En su lugar, dispositivos con las posibilidades de una computadora llegarán con toda clase de inesperadas formas y tamaños.* Los cables que conectan las computadoras con los periféricos habrán desaparecido casi completamente.* Las memorias de computadora rotatorias (disco duro, disco compacto, DVD, etc.) dejarán de usarse.* Entramados tridimensionales de nanotubos serán el sustrato informático dominante.* Las redes neuronales masivas en paralelo y los algoritmos genéticos serán de amplio uso.* Los escaneos destructivos del cerebro y los escaneos cerebrales no invasivos habrán permitido a los científicos comprender el cerebro mucho mejor.Los algoritmos que permiten que el relativamente pequeño código genético del cerebro construya un órgano mucho más complejo se empezarán a transferir a redes neuronales computarizadas.* Cámaras del tamaño de alfileres estarán por todas partes.* La nanotecnología tendrá más posibilidades y se usará para aplicaciones especiales, aunque aún no conseguirá preponderancia.«Máquinas de nanoingeniería» empezarán a usarse en la industria.* Pantallas delgadas, ligeras y portátiles con muy altas resoluciones serán los medios preferidos para visualizar documentos.Las gafas y lentes de contacto anteriormente mencionadas también se usarán con este mismo propósito, y todos los dispositivos descargarán la información de forma inalámbrica.* Las computadoras habrán hecho que los libros y documentos de papel queden casi completamente obsoletos.* La mayor parte de la enseñanza se llevará a cabo mediante cursos informáticos inteligentes y adaptados presentados por profesores simulados por computadora.En el proceso de aprendizaje, humanos adultos tendrán los papeles de consejeros y mentores en lugar de ser instructores académicos.Estos asistentes generalmente no estarán presentes físicamente, y ayudarán a los estudiantes a distancia.* Los estudiantes aún aprenderán juntos y harán vida social, aunque lo harán generalmente a distancia a través de computadoras.* Todos los estudiantes tendrán acceso a las computadoras.* La mayoría de los trabajadores humanos pasarán la mayor parte del tiempo adquiriendo nuevas habilidades y conocimiento.* Los ciegos llevarán gafas especiales que interpretarán el mundo real para ellos a través de voz.Los videntes también usarán estas gafas para amplificar sus propias capacidades.* Implantes retinales y neurales también existirán, pero tendrán un uso limitado ya que serán menos útiles.* Los sordos usarán gafas especiales que convertirán la voz en texto o signos, y la música en imágenes o sensaciones táctiles.Los implantes cocleares, entre otros, serán de amplio uso.* Las personas con daños en la médula espinal podrán caminar y subir escalones mediante estimulación nerviosa controlada por computadora y andadores robóticos exoesqueléticos.* Las máquinas traductoras del lenguaje serán de mucho mayor calidad, y se usarán de forma rutinaria en las conversaciones.* El acceso a Internet será completamente inalámbrico y proporcionado por computadoras que podrán llevarse puestas o implantadas.* Dispositivos que proporcionen sensaciones en la superficie de la piel de sus usuarios (p. ej., trajes ajustados al cuerpo y guantes) también se usarán a veces en la realidad virtual para completar la experiencia.El «sexo virtual» —en el cual dos personas podrán tener relaciones sexuales a través de realidad virtual, o en la que un humano podrá practicar sexo con un compañero simulado que sólo existe en una computadora— llegará a ser una realidad.* Cuando la realidad virtual visual y auditiva haya pasado de moda, la tecnología del tacto habrá madurado completamente y será totalmente convincente, aunque requerirá que el usuario entre en una cabina de realidad virtual.Será la forma preferida de practicar el sexo ya que será segura y mejorará la experiencia.Este sistema se usará frecuentemente para sexo por computadora y para exámenes médicos a distancia.* El crecimiento económico mundial continuará.No se producirá un colapso económico global.* La amplia mayoría de las interacciones comerciales ocurrirán entre humanos y minoristas simulados, o entre asistentes personales virtuales y minoristas simulados.* Los robots domésticos estarán por doquier y serán fiables.* Las computadoras harán la mayor parte de la conducción de vehículos —los humanos tendrán de hecho prohibido conducir en las autopistas sin asistencia—.Además, cuando los humanos tomen el mando, el sistema informático de a bordo monitorizará sus acciones y tomará el control cuando el humano conduzca imprudentemente.Como resultado, habrá muy pocos accidentes de circulación.* Existirán prototipos de vehículos voladores personales con microalerones.También estarán controlados principalmente por computadora.* Los humanos empezarán a tener profundas relaciones con personalidades automáticas, que tendrán algunas ventajas sobre los compañeros humanos.La profundidad de algunas personalidades por computadora convencerá a algunas personas de que deberían dárseles más derechos.* Los lugares públicos y las zonas de trabajo estarán monitorizadas por doquier para prevenir la violencia y todas las acciones se grabarán de forma permanente.La privacidad será un tema político importante, y algunas personas se protegerán con códigos informáticos de seguridad.* Se satisfarán las necesidades básicas de las clases bajas.(Kurzweil no especifica si esto se refiere al mundo desarrollado o a todos los países).* Las computadoras también también estarán dentro de algunos humanos en forma de implantes cibernéticos.Serán mayoritariamente usados por personas con discapacidad para recuperar algunas facultades físicas (p. ej., implantes retinales que permitirán a los ciegos ver o implantes espinales acompañados de piernas mecánicas que permitirán a los paralíticos caminar).* La mayoría de las carreteras tendrán sistemas de conducción automatizados —redes de dispositivos de monitorización y comunicación que permitirán a los automóviles controlados por computadora la conducción de forma segura.* Las relaciones entre robots y humanos comenzarán a medida que las personalidades simuladas se vuelvan más convincentes.* Artistas virtuales —computadoras creativas capaces de producir su propio arte y música— emergerán en todos los campos de las artes.* Mientras que un número creciente de seres humanos creerán que sus computadoras y las personalidades simuladas con las que interactúan son inteligentes hasta el punto de la consciencia a nivel humano, los expertos descartarán la posibilidad de que alguna pueda pasar el test de Turing.* Habrá conexiones de comunicación a Internet de banda ancha y conectividad ubicua en todo momento;interacción con personalidades virtuales como interfaz principal;tecnología del lenguaje efectiva (proceso natural del lenguaje, reconocimiento de voz, síntesis de voz).=== 2029 - 2048 ===* Una computadora personal será 1.000 veces más potente que el cerebro humano.* La mayor parte de la computación será realizada por computadoras.* Se habrán conseguido mayores avances en la comprensión de los secretos del cerebro humano.Cientos de sub-regiones diferentes con funciones especializadas habrán sido identificadas.Algunos de los algoritmos que codifican el desarrollo de estas regiones se habrán descifrado e incorporado en computadoras de redes neuronales.* Las redes neuronales masivas en paralelo, que se construirán por medio de ingeniería inversa del cerebro humano, serán de uso común.* Las gafas y auriculares que se usaban para proporcionar realidad virtual estarán ahora obsoletas gracias a la existencia de implantes de computadora que irán dentro de los ojos y oídos.Los implantes serán tanto permanentes como de quita y pon.Permitirán una interfaz directa con las computadoras, las comunicaciones y las aplicaciones basadas en Internet.Estos implantes serán también capaces de grabar lo que el usuario ve y oye.* También habrá disponibles implantes diseñados para una conexión directa con el cerebro.Serán capaces de aumentar los sentidos naturales y de mejorar funciones cerebrales elevadas como la memoria, la velocidad de aprendizaje y la inteligencia en general.* Las computadoras ahora serán capaces de aprender y crear nuevo conocimiento de forma completamente independiente y sin ayuda humana.Escaneando el enorme contenido de Internet, algunas computadoras «conocerán» literalmente cada pequeña pieza de información pública (cada descubrimiento científico, cada libro y película, cada declaración pública, etc.) generada por seres humanos.* Implantes cerebrales directos permitirán a los usuarios entrar en una realidad virtual de total inmersión —con estimulación sensorial completa— sin ningún equipo externo.Las personas podrán tener sus mentes en un lugar totalmente diferente en cualquier momento.Esta tecnología será de uso ampliamente extendido.* La mayor parte de la comunicación ocurrirá entre humanos y máquinas en lugar de humanos entre sí.* Los sectores industrial, agrícola y de transportes de la economía estarán casi completamente automatizados y emplearán a muy pocos humanos.En todo el mundo, la pobreza, la guerra y las enfermedades serán casi inexistentes gracias a que la tecnología aliviará las carencias.* El crecimiento de la inteligencia artificial provocará un verdadero movimiento de los «derechos del robot», y habrá un debate público abierto sobre qué clase de derechos civiles y protecciones legales deberían tener las máquinas.La existencia de humanos con altos niveles de aumento cibernético y de un mayor número de otras personas con implantes cibernéticos menos extremos llevará a cambiar la definición de lo que constituye un «ser humano».* Aunque las computadoras pasarán rutinariamente el test de Turing, la controversia persistirá sobre si las máquinas son tan inteligentes como los humanos en todas las áreas.* Las inteligencias artificiales reivindicarán ser conscientes y pedirán abiertamente el reconocimiento de ese hecho.La mayoría de las personas admitirán y aceptarán esta nueva realidad.* La ingeniería inversa del cerebro humano se habrá completado.* La inteligencia no biológica combinará la sutileza y fuerza de reconocimiento de patrones de la inteligencia humana con la velocidad, memoria y capacidad de compartición de conocimiento de la inteligencia maquinal.* La inteligencia no biológica continuará creciendo exponencialmente mientras que la inteligencia biológica permanecerá fija.=== 2049 - 2071 ===* Los alimentos serán con frecuencia «compuestos» por nanomáquinas.Éstos serán externamente indistinguibles de los «naturales», pero podrán hacerse más saludables ya que la producción podrá controlarse a nivel molecular.Esta tecnología desacoplará la producción alimentaria de las condiciones climáticas y la disponiblidad de recursos naturales.Una implicación de esto es que la producción cárnica dejará de requerir la matanza de animales.* La distinción entre realidad virtual y realidad "real" llegará a confundirse a medida que los nano-robots empiecen a usarse de forma común, permitiendo la composición o descomposición inmediata de toda clase de objetos físicos.=== 2072 - 2098 ===* La picoingeniería (tecnología a escala de billonésimas de metro) se hará práctica.=== 2099 ===* El cerebro humano se habrá estudiado completamente por ingeniería inversa y se comprenderá todo su funcionamiento.* El pensamiento humano natural no tendrá ninguna ventaja sobre las mentes de las computadoras.* Las máquinas habrán alcanzado el mismo estado legal que los humanos.* Los humanos y las máquinas se mezclarán en el mundo físico y mental.Los implantes cerebrales cibernéticos permitirán a los humanos fundir sus mentes con inteligencias artificiales.* En consecuencia, dejarán de existir distinciones claras entre humanos y máquinas.* La mayoría de los seres conscientes carecerán de una forma física permanente.* El mundo estará irrefrenablemente poblado por inteligencias artificiales que existirán completamente como programas de computadora pensantes capaces de pasar instantáneamente de una computadora a otra a través de Internet (o cualquier otra cosa equivalente en 2099).Estos seres basados en computadora serán capaces de manifestarse en el mundo físico cuando deseen creando o asumiendo el control de cuerpos robóticos, con inteligencias artificiales también capaces de controlar varios cuerpos a la vez.* Los seres individuales se mezclarán y separarán constantemente, haciendo imposible determinar cuántas "personas" hay en la Tierra.* Esta nueva plasticidad de la consciencia y la habilidad de los seres de unir sus mentes alterará severamente la naturaleza de la identidad propia.* La mayor parte de las interacciones interpersonales ocurrirán en entornos virtuales.De hecho, que dos personas se encuentren físicamente en el mundo real para tener una conversación o una transacción comercial sin ninguna interferencia tecnológica será muy raro.* Los seres humanos orgánicos serán un pequeña minoría de las formas de vida inteligente en la Tierra.Incluso entre los Homo sapiens restantes, el uso de implantes computarizados que aumenten profundamente las habilidades será algo que existirá por todas partes y que se aceptará como algo normal.La pequeña fracción de humanos que opten por permanecer "naturales" y sin modificaciones efectivamente existirán, pero en un plano de la consciencia diferente al de los demás, por lo que verán imposible interactuar totalmente con las inteligencias artificiales o con los humanos altamente modificados.* Los humanos "naturales" estarán protegidos del exterminio.A pesar de sus deficiencias y debilidades, los humanos serán respetados por las inteligencias artificiales por haber sido los creadores de las máquinas.* Ya que el conocimiento y las aptitudes podrán descargarse instantáneamente y ser comprendidas por la mayoría de los seres inteligentes, el proceso de aprendizaje se comprimirá en algo instantáneo en lugar de la experiencia de años de lucha de los humanos normales.Libres de esta carga consumidora de tiempo, las inteligencias artificiales enfocarán ahora sus energías en realizar nuevos descubrimientos y contribuciones.* Las inteligencias artificiales serán capaces de dividir su atención y energías en incontables direcciones, haciendo posible que un ser controle una multitud de esfuerzos simultáneamente.* La femtoingeniería (ingeniería a la escala de una milésima de billonésima de metro) podría ser posible.* Las inteligencias artificiales se comunicarán a través de un lenguaje electrónico compartido.* El material gráfico y la música creados por las máquinas abarcarán áreas del espectro lumínico y frecuencias sonoras que los humanos normales no podrán percibir.* El dinero experimentará una deflación.* Algunos humanos al menos tan viejos como los procedentes del baby boom estarán aún vivos y en buenas condiciones.* Los virus informáticos serán una amenaza importante ya que la mayoría de los seres inteligentes estarán basados en software.* Las inteligencias artificiales realizarán «copias de seguridad» de sí mismas, garantizando una especie de inmortalidad para casos en que por ejemplo la inteligencia sea asesinada.* El concepto de «esperanza de vida» se habrá convertido en irrelevante para los humanos y máquinas gracias a la inmortalidad médica y las computadoras avanzadas.* El ritmo del cambio tecnológico continuará acelerándose a medida que se aproxima el siglo XXII.=== Dentro de miles de años ===* "Los seres inteligentes considerarán el destino del universo".Presumiblemente, esto significa que las inteligencias artificiales creadas por los humanos tendrán la habilidad de controlar todo el universo, tal vez evitando que muera.== Referencias ==Categoría:Computación ubicuaCategoría:Inteligencia artificialCategoría:Libros de informáticaCategoría:Transhumanismo...