The red pill is a book written by Alfredo Romeo and Juantomás Garcia in 2003. It can be considered as the first book on free software in Spanish. Some chapters of this book are published under the Creative Commons license. The foreword was written by Miguel de Icaza. == Details == The red pill aims to show why free software as the ideal base on which to build our future as a society. The basis on which free software is based are described, the reality of it and why its implementation is suitable for all types of organizations. The socio-economic impact is currently in Public Administration and Education is analyzed. Also the real possibility that free technologies offer the whole of society, especially the España.es Plan promoted by the Ministry of Science and Technology for Development Society Conocimiento.Se review the business models of companies offering on free technologies and existing Spanish market. Is analyzed, moreover, the positioning of the different types of company that offer services for free software (multinationals and independent consultants channel), along with the various existing business opportunities, such as the release of software under free licenses. Besides the global situation which is free software and how different players try to monopolize the knowledge and infrastructure (Threats to the Common Heritage of Innovation) is shown. Through an analysis of weaknesses, threats, strengths and opportunities, see the current situation and possible developments that have the free software, collecting the different trends that seem to technology as the commoditization of basic infrastructure, the evolution towards Personal fabricators or the unification of open and free standards for use in the last sociedad.Por, concrete possibilities for all kinds of groups and the advantages of implementing and operating performances bring free software is. Among them are entrepreneurs, SME owners, CTOs, CIOs, proprietary software companies, politicians, government officials, university presidents, leaders of groups, associations, foundations, federations, professional associations, students, technology, . Humanities, Journalism, etc. == external links == * Website oficialCategoría: Content libreCategoría: Books informáticaCategoría: Free Software