Metro also called Web 2.0 with its full name Planeta Web 2.0. Collective intelligence or means fast food is an e-book published in 2007 under a Creative Commons license, Cristobal Cobo Romani academics and Hugo Pardo Kuklinski (foreword by Alejandro Piscitelli). == Introduction == This paper reflects if you live a decisive and creative phase of collective intelligence or whether it is simply a scenario means fast food, fast moving consumer and amateur character in rapid transition to a new evolutionary stage Internet.The book is comprised of: a glossary, a introduction, a preface, seven chapters, and a bibliography. In addition, each chapter has a summary of the 5 basic notions of this and a selection of 5 readings básicas.El Chapter One introduces the reader to the Web 2.0 and its design principles and some analytical axes for further work. Meanwhile, chapter two proposed return to the origins of the Web, around the year 1990 by Berners-Lee and his concept of intercreatividad. The purpose is to emphasize how, in the origin of the World Wide Web, are the essential elements of this new commercial wave and were 2.0, demonstrating that nothing is as new as it seems. The chapter also turns on other intercreatividad as complementary to that of collective intelligence (Pierre Lévy), smart mobs (Howard Rheingold), Wisdom of Crowds (James Surowiecki), Collaboratory (Koichiro Matsuura and architecture of participation concepts (Tim O'Reilly) . Chapter three detailed map of web 2.0 applications is presented.'s purpose is to map it, present some fundamental lines of its architecture and highlight those that are more creative and efficient for multiple applications related to knowledge management. Though oversupply the artificiality and inauthenticity of many applications that provide more than confuse and take away transparency to the environment. This work is done with the awareness that every effort to systematize, classify and debug web 2.0 resources is a hara-Academics kiri, being a living ecosystem and an endless phase transición.El fourth chapter collects and reinforces some critical judgments circulating in the academic environment. Alerting the reader to the difficulty of finding objective comparisons between technologies in a rather busy holding captive markets and / or conquer new public commercial environment, which give consumers an honest view of the business. As a counterpart to the triumphalism of Web 2.0 are: the lack of a true business model associated with the success of consumption; the unresolved violations of copyright; the lack of consolidation of alternative forms of community knowledge construction; digital literacy and exclusion zones; noise and the information paradox of poverty as information overload; amateurism as flag bullshitters and preachers who promote collaborative journalism overvalued; and limitations of preferential attachment of network science to create a more democratic construction flow and visibility of nodos.Posteriormente, in chapter five, one key area of action associated with this phase of social writing is analyzed: the educational applications. An understanding of the potential of the architecture of participation in formal education and value the networked computers as tools to access, manage, integrate, evaluate and create information. All this in order to stimulate a learning model based on the construction of social knowledge produced by the networks that help to strengthen intelligence colectiva.Un last point of analysis, as outlined in chapter six, the novel raises convergence between web 2.0 applications and the third generation of mobile devices. This phenomenon arises from the attractive opportunities that society offers mobile network ubiquity and productivity level, with increasingly powerful, increasing bandwidth connection to the Internet via mobile wireless networks in its processing equipment hybrids, communities increasingly powerful online and emerging business models. This section 7 O'Reilly constituents of adapting to Mobile Web 2.0 and market aspects related to consumption, manufacturers and operators are analyzed both; as those related to products, content and interfaces gráficas.En closing chapter aspects rescues, as a speaker corner, the ideas of the actors through selected comments from users, inhabitants of Planet Web 2.0. In addition, a bridge between the social Web and the Semantic Web coveted set. == External Links == * Official website * Official Book Blog Book * References * Podcast on Technorati * Book version online at Google Book * Wiki official Publication of the Book * Organization of American States * Publishing * Microsiervos Observatory for CiberSociedadCategoría: informáticaCategoría Books: Internet