The United States Invitational Young Physicists Tournament (USIYPT) is an annual physics research and debate tournament for high school students, held the first weekend of February. School-based teams of two to four students investigate several undergraduate-level research problems in preparation for the tournament.  The competition itself consists of "physics fights," student-led debates over the quality of each team's solution. Teams are judged on their own solutions to the problems and on their ability to engage in evaluation and discussion of other teams' solutions. The 2014 holder of the USIYPT championship trophy is The Harker School of San Jose, California. The 2015 tournament will be held at Woodberry Forest School in central Virginia.

== History ==
The United States sent teams to the International Young Physicists' Tournament several times in the 2000s, and achieved a second-place finish in 2005. The nonprofit United States Association for Young Physicists Tournaments was incorporated in 2005, initially for the purpose of supporting and training the US team as well as to spread the pedagogical methodology of preparing and conducting the "physics fight." In 2007, the USAYPT organized their own Young Physicists Tournament, inviting school-based teams from around the world to debate over a slate of four research problems. The one-day event at the North Carolina School of Science and Math (NCSSM) included five teams, all from the United States; Woodberry Forest School won the inaugural championship.

The 2008 tournament, also at NCSSM, included the first "international" team: Brisbane Girls Grammar School. They faced Woodberry Forest School, a boys' boarding school in central Virginia. In the final physics fight, Brisbane's Sarah Thang and Samantha Luck outdueled Woodberry's Chris McLamb and Robert Bauer for the title.

For 2009 and 2010, the event was moved to Woodberry Forest School. Raffles Institution of Singapore beat out an eight-team field for the 2009 title.  However, the "snowmaggedon" blizzard of February forced cancellation of the 2010 tournament.  Instead, two informal mini-tournaments were held in April, one at Woodberry Forest School, one at the Harker School in California.

The USIYPT moved to Oak Ridge Associated Universities for 2011 and 2012, and expanded to a two-day, six-round event. Teams and jurors toured Oak Ridge National Laboratory in between sets of physics fights, viewing the High Flux Isotope Reactor and the Spallation Neutron Source. Official sponsorship in 2011 came from the University of Tennessee department of physics, among others. The Harker School won in 2011; Rye Country Day School of New York won in 2012. Oak Ridge High School won the first-ever Clifford Swartz Trophy for top performance in the tournament's poster session.

The 2014 tournament was held at the Harker School in San Jose, California.  The Harker School won the title with playoff victories over Woodberry Forest School and Shenzhen Middle School on the "Magnet Stack" and "Ball Stack" problems.  Guilderland High School of New York won the Clifford Swartz Trophy for best poster.

The 2015 tournament will be held at Woodberry Forest School in Virginia on Jan. 30-31.

== Teacher education ==
Unusual among science competitions, the USIYPT aims to improve physics teaching skills as well as student understanding of the subject. High school teachers are participating members of each school's research team. The sponsoring organization chooses problems for each tournament that are "nontrivial, but not impossible," whose solutions are not necessarily unknown to practicing professional physicists, but are generally new to high school teachers and students. Research is expected to be conducted primarily in each team's school, with direction and assistance from a teacher at that school.

== Results ==

== List of Participating Schools ==
Woodberry Forest School, Virginia, USA – 7 tournaments

Rye Country Day School, New York, USA – 7 tournaments

The Harker School, California, USA – 5 tournaments

Wildwood School, California, USA – 3 tournaments

Shenzhen Middle School, China – 3 tournaments

Oak Ridge High School, Tennessee, USA – 2 tournaments

Brisbane Girls Grammar School, Australia – 2 tournaments

North Carolina School of Science and Math – 2 tournaments

Oregon Episcopal School, Oregon, USA – 2 tournaments

Vistamar School, California, USA – 2 tournaments

Nanjing Foreign Language School, China – 2 tournaments

Pioneer High School of Ariana, Tunisia – 2 tournaments

Guilderland High School, New York, USA – 2 tournaments

High School of Jur Hronec, Slovak Republic – 1 tournament

Calverton School, Maryland, USA – 1 tournament

Raffles Institute, Singapore – 1 tournament

Madeira School, Virginia, USA – 1 tournament

Pioneer High School of Manzeh 8, Tunisia - 1 tournament

Georgian English-Spanish School, Tbilisi - 1 tournament

==References==

== External links ==
*Official site of the US Association for Young Physicists Tournaments