A stellar black hole is a black hole formed by the gravitational collapse of a massive star (more than 8 solar masses) at the end of its lifetime. The process is observed as a supernova explosion or an explosion of gamma rays. This black hole will have a mass greater than 3 solar masses. The biggest stellar black hole known (until 2001) has 33 solares.Teóricamente mass black holes may exist for any mass (general relativity). The less mass has, the greater must be the density of matter to form a black hole, on the radius of a black hole. There are no known processes that can produce black holes with a mass less than a few times the mass of the Sun If they exist, are mainly primordiales.El black holes collapse of a star is a natural process that produces a black hole. It is inevitable that at the end of a star's life, when all stellar energy sources are exhausted, if the mass of the star that is collapsing under a certain critical value, the final product will be a compact star, either a white dwarf, a neutron star or a quark star. These stars have a maximum mass. So if the collapsing star has a mass that exceeds this limit, the collapse will continue forever (catastrophic gravitational collapse) and form a black hole. The maximum mass of a neutron star is still unknown, but is believed to be about 3 mass solares.También there is evidence of two other types of black holes, which are much more massive than stellar black holes. They are the black holes of intermediate mass (center of globular clusters) and supermassive black holes at the center of the Milky Way and other galaxies activas.Un black hole can only have three fundamental properties: mass, electric charge and time angular (rotation). It is believed that all black holes formed in nature have rotation, but has not made a definite observation in the rotation. The rotation of a stellar black hole is due to conservation of angular momentum of the star that produced it. == The observed stellar mass black holes in binary systems of compact X-ray == Stellar black holes in close binary systems are observable when matter is transferred from a companion star to the black hole. The energy release in the fall toward the compact star is so great that the material reaches temperatures of hundreds of millions of degrees and radiation (X-ray Astronomy) X-rays. Therefore, the black hole is observable by X-rays, while the companion star can be observed with optical telescopes. The release of energy from black holes and neutron stars are of the same magnitude. Black holes and neutron stars are occasionally difficult to distinguir.Sin But neutron stars have additional properties. These show differential rotation, and may have a magnetic field and localized explosions display (thermonuclear explosions). Whenever such properties are observed, the compact object in the binary system is revealed as a star masses derived neutrones.Las come from observations of compact X-ray sources (combining optical and X-ray data). All identified neutron stars have a mass of 3-5 solar masses. None of compact systems with greater than 5 solar masses reveals the properties of a neutron star. The combination of these factors reveals that the class of compact stars with a greater than 5 solar masses are actually holes negros.Nótese this test for the existence of stellar black holes is not entirely observational, but is based on a theory : We can not think of another object to these stellar mass compact binary black hole systems. A direct proof of the existence of a black hole could be if one currently observed orbit of a particle falling into the black hole. In early 2005, an experiment (English) using a relativistic heavy ion collider has shown evidence of matter falling into a black hole Micro, making the matter as I estirase esperaba.Para more information: * Janusz Ziółkowski "Candidates black "(in English) == See also == holes Candidates stellar-mass black holes * Cygnus X-1 * LMC X-1 * LMC X-3 * a * SS 433 * 0620-00 V404 Cyg.Teoría: * stellar Evolution * hole negroClasificación gravitational collapse * types: * black hole Schwarzschild black hole * Kerr * Kerr black hole and Reissner-Newman-Nordström black hole or by mass cargadoClasificación: * Micro black hole, a black hole extra-dimensional * primordial black hole, a hypothetical Big Bang * leftover stellar black hole, which could be either a static black hole, as a rotating black hole. * intermediate mass black hole supermassive black hole *, which could be either a black hole static as a rotating black hole == external Links == * Diagram of black holes (in English) * black Holes:. relentless pull of gravity interactive multimedia web about physics and astronomy of black holes from the Institute of Science Space Telescope (in English).