The x-ray binaries are a class of binary systems are very bright in X-rays (1033 - 1039erg / s). They consist of a compact object that was formed by collapse of a star, and a conventional star of the main sequence. The compact object is either a neutron star or a black hole. Both have larger masses than the Sun, but concentrated in a much smaller volume. The conventional star is often called star compañera.Materia conventional star falls into the compact object, forming a general accretion disk orbiting the compact object. In the fall gravitational potential energy is converted into heat, causing the disc reaches temperatures of millions of kelvins and emits x-rays. At such high temperatures, all matter in the disk is shaped plasma.thumb | 250px | right | An artist's rendering of a binary X.Las ray binary X-rays are classified according to the mass of the companion star in X-ray binaries low mass and x-ray binary high mass. The low-mass companion have a much lower than that of the Sun (are red stars of spectral type K or M) mass. The high-mass companion to have a much greater mass of the Sun (blue stars of type O or Be). Hundreds of X-ray binaries in our galaxy and are among the brightest objects in the sky in X-rays, for example Scorpius X-1 and Cygnus X-1.Are objects highly variable, on time scales ranging from minutes to years. The variability is related to changes in the accretion of material, which in turn can be caused, for example, the orbital motion of the two star or disc precession acrecimiento.Cuando the compact object is a neutron star, the strong magnetic field the plasma can lead to the magnetic poles. At the poles collide with the surface of the neutron star and emit significant quantities of highly focused along the magnetic axes X rays. Are called x.Al ray pulsars as in active galaxies, in some binary X a jet or jets emerging from the disk material accretion is generally rays exiting the binary system and can extend along parsecs. The jets emit radio synchrotron radiation. In some of these jets components traveling speeds approaching the speed of light is observed. In this case, the X-ray binary microquasar called. == * See also == * Binary Binary ray of high mass x * X-ray pulsars * Binary soft x-ray beams x * Microquasars * low mass Ultraluminous X Fonts