thumb | right | 250px | ergosphere surrounding the event horizon of a rotating black hole. The ergosphere, also known as the ergosphere is the outside and close to the event horizon of a rotating black hole region. In it, the field of gravity of the black hole rotates along with it dragging spacetime. It is a phenomenon theorized by the New Zealand physicist Roy Kerr and emanates directly from the theories of Einstein's general relativity. The model Kerr black hole of the first and simplest model of black hole, the Schwarzschild model. Models possible ergosferas == == Schwarzschild model === === More information: Schwarzschild black hole The first fundamental model of a black hole was the German Karl Schwarzschild. the Schwarzschild black hole is basically a temporal singularity in space-time and zero angular momentum is a simpler solution and the first physical interest to be found to the equations of general relativity. Kerr model === === More information on Kerr black hole This model is a solution to the equations of general relativity for a rotating black hole. It is unique, unlike the Schwarzschild would annularly. Actual black holes found in nature must be rotating since by conservation of angular momentum, rotate as did the progenitor star or object. It is known that dying stars lose much angular momentum, this being expelled along with the matter ejected by the supernova explosion in which the black hole is formed. But, despite this loss of time, part of it remains. Such a hole would produce, in a region called the ergosphere, a region of "drag" of spacetime. The structure ergosfera is ellipsoidal, the minor axis coincides with the rotation axis thereof. Flattens the ergosfera therefore, in the direction of the axis of rotation in a similar manner as does the Earth rotation effect. The ergosphere == and == time travel More on Time Travel Within ergosphere no rest. It is impossible that a body does not move, because space itself revolves around the singularity so that the matter is in that region will rotate with it. This according to the theory of relativity leads curious consequences. The observation of a body traveling fast enough on the ergosphere could give a relative velocity with respect to us even higher than the speed of light c. In this case, such an object would simply disappear from view. Arrive at its destination before he had left, which in physical terms means you have traveled back in time. For this amazing idea conceived the ergoesferas by theoretical physicists, as true natural time machines. Machines where, in any case, can not travel beyond the time that the hole in question is formed. Penrose Process == == Because the ergosphere lies outside the event horizon, in this region can escape the gravitational pull objects of a black hole. An object can gain kinetic energy to enter the gravitational field of a rotating black hole and then escape from it, taking some of the energy of the black hole. This process of absorption of energy from a rotating black hole is called the Penrose process and was developed in 1969 by the mathematician Roger Penrose. The theoretical maximum energy extraction that can be drawn is 29% of total energy. When energy is absorbed, the black hole loses its spin and ergosfera ceases to exist. This is the process that could explain why black holes emit flashes of gamma rays. Computer models have shown that the Penrose process would be responsible for the emission of high energy particles being observed by quasars and other active galactic nuclei. See also == == * Black hole. * Stellar Evolution.