A galaxy is said active when a significant fraction of the electromagnetic radiation emitted is not due to "normal" components of a galaxy (stars, dust and interstellar gas.) The term active nucleus of galaxy (AGN, for its acronym in English ) is often used to describe this type of object, since the energy emitted by active galaxies to a compact region is apparently due to its center. In some cases, this central region emits jets of particles that extend for great distances, causing emission from extended regions, although in all cases the ultimate source of the energy emitted is the region central.El most accepted theoretical model unifies different types objects, such as galaxies seyfert, quasars and blazars, which appear to be different because of the angle of inclination in the cielo.Según the unified model, energy is generated by matter (gas and dust) falling to a supermassive black hole between 10 ^ 6 and 10 ^ 9 solar masses. Falling material forms an accretion disk, due to conservation of angular momentum. The frictional heat causes the material is transformed into plasma and generates a magnetic field through the alpha mechanism. Accretion is highly efficient to transform matter into energy, being able to convert up to half of the rest mass of matter into energy (compared, for example, the small percentage of efficiency of nuclear fusion.) It is believed that when the hole black has consumed all the gas and dust from your neighborhood, the active galaxy stops emitting large amounts of energy and is transformed into a normal galaxy. This model is based on what appears to be a supermassive black hole activity in the center of the Milky Way and other nearby galaxies. This model also explains the fact that quasars are much more common in the universe temprano.Las active galaxies are divided into two groups: those that are too bright to be observed with radio telescope (radio-loud AGN) and that no (radio-quiet AGN). == History == in 1909 Edward A. Fath discovered emission lines in a spectrum of "spiral nebula" NGC 1068. spectrum consisted of absorption lines with emission lines as that were seen in the gaseous nebulae. Carl K. Seyfert discovered in 1943 that some galaxies have a nucleus, timely appearance, which is native to these emission lines. This is the first systematic work looking for this particular type of galaxies. The emission of these galaxies was very similar to the emission lines superimposed on a typical spectrum of a star like the Sun (type G) planetary nebula. The width of the lines is attributed by the Doppler shift Seyfert thus speeds up to 8500 m / s are obtained in the nuclear area. This would correspond to a very hot gas moving at high speed, in contrast to the 300 km / s to the moving average stars and gas of a normal spiral galaxy. This type of galaxies are called galaxies Seyfert.En the 50 and 60 active galaxies acquire an important role in astronomy that reaches today. After the initial development of radio astronomy by the pioneers in this area as Jansky and Reber begin to perform early exploration of the sky in radio, looking for precise positions of the sources and the optical identification of these. Smith in 1951 obtained accurate positions for Cyg A, Cas A and other sources. With these positions, Baade and Minkowski in 1954 optically identified Cyg A and Cas A, can be estimated their distances from their spectra. Highly distorted galaxies as the origin of this emission are observed. These sources had very high luminosities in radio, even stronger than visible. Types of galaxies were later discovered with very bright nuclei in radio wavelengths, which call "Radio Star", which, after checking that extragalactic sources were quasars are renamed. These quasars are galaxies Cyg A type located large distancias.Sandage (1965) finds a large population of objects, even without a strong radio emission, is similar in all other respects to the quasars. These objects have a high emission in the ultraviolet (UV) relative to the optic and are known as QSO (Quasi-Stellar Objets). It is a parallel between these objects, located in nuclei of very distant galaxies with Seyfert galaxies. Later radio galaxies are a type called BL Lac, galaxies with nuclear low ionization emitting regions (LINERs) and other galaxies with a similar phenomenology. All common characteristics led to postulate the idea of a common origin of all these different objects engulfing within the concept of AGN. == Summary == The active galaxy nuclei generally be summarized in the following table. == See also astronomical object * == * elliptical galaxy M87 * black hole jets * JET * cosmic ray particles