In astrophysics, gravitational vacuum star or a theoretical proposal gravastares Pawel Mazur and Emil Mottola to replace the black holes. The gravastars are one of the consequences of guessing that there are certain physical limitations that prevent the formation of black holes. The proposed Mazur and Mottola suggests that space itself reaches a phase transition that avoids the collapse and formation of a singularity interna.La proposal has aroused little interest among astrophysicists, because although it was the title of a conference, the authors did not get to post any scientific article. The lack of interest comes from the fact that the concept requires one to accept a highly speculative theory about the quantization of gravity, and yet, has no real improvement over the black hole. Furthermore, there is no theoretical reason in the quantization of gravity to explain why space should behave the way Mottola and Mazur and Mottola indican.Mazur have suggested that gravastares could be the solution to the information paradox in black holes and the gravastar could be a source of outbreaks of gamma rays (BRG), adding one more to dozens, if not hundreds of ideas that have been proposed as causes of the BRG. Anyway, the consensus among astrophysicists is that much less radical and speculative ways to solve the two problems mencionados.Externamente a gravastar seems like a black hole: it is visible only by the high-energy emissions created by consuming matter . Astronomers observe the sky for X-rays emitted by matter that absorb to detect black holes, and produce a signal gravastar idéntica.Dentro a gravastar, spacetime would be completely stopped by the extreme conditions existing there, producing a force outward. Around this vacuum would have a "bubble" in which space itself behave like a block of material. The idea of such behavior space can be compared to an extreme form of Bose-Einstein condensate in which all matter (protons, neutrons, electrons, etc..) Becomes what is called a quantum state by creating a "super -atom. "== References ==