thumb | Jet issued by the elliptical galaxy M87. In astronomy, Jet (also called jet or relativistic jet) is a term used in several contexts to refer to jets of matter that are generally associated with accretion disks, both star formation, where the jet is formed by material with excess angular momentum is not incorporated in the star being formed as black holes. In these, the jet may have a speed that from Earth appears to move faster than the speed of light. Some of these holes with jets can be very massive and be in the center of active galaxies or quasars forming very energetic galaxies. Observations from the jets determined that, as long you know, are electrically neutral on large scales (larger than the Debye length), are made of plasma, ie the state of matter in which electrons and protons found separately. The jets also carry much more energy than at first thought. X-ray measurements peaked at 10 000 electron volts. It is estimated that the jets reach 99.9% of the speed of light and can carry as much mass as the planet Jupiter. Similar Jets, albeit on a smaller scale, can develop around accretion disks of neutron stars and black holes. Often called microquasars these systems. A famous example is SS433, whose jet has been observed to have a speed of 0,23c, although other microquasars jets appear to have higher speeds. Even other weaker and smaller can be associated with many binary systems; accretion mechanism for these jets may be similar to the processes of magnetic reconnection observed in Earth's magnetosphere and solar wind plasmas but also happen to be collimated or traveling at such high speeds. The matter ejected through the jets, turns out to be collimated by the magnetic field of the source, producing the trajectory is linear in sectors close to the source. The same jet away from the source is determined by the action of its own magnetic field (magnetohidrodinémica equations) which for most cases assumes toroidal but a good approximation can be obtained with the electrodynamic equations. See also == == * Black hole * Blazar * Cosmic Ray in: Relativistic Polar jet # jet