The Tolman-Oppenheimer-Volkoff (TOV) limit is an upper limit to the mass of stars composed of neutron degenerate matter (neutron stars). It is analogous to the Chandrasekhar limit for white dwarf star (white dwarf). History and Development == == The limit was calculated by Julius Robert Oppenheimer and Volkoff George Michael in 1939, using earlier work by Richard Chace Tolman. Oppenheimer and Volkoff adopted the neutrons in a neutron star formed a degenerate Fermi gas of cold. This leads to a mass limit of about 0.7 solar masses. Modern estimates predict a mass limit of 1.5 to 3.0 solar masses. The uncertainty in the values ​​reflects the fact that the equations of state for extremely dense matter are not well known. Some considerations == == In a neutron star lighter than the limit, the weight of the star is supported by repulsive interactions short neutron-neutron mediated by the strong force and the pressure caused by the degeneration of neutrons. If a neutron star is heavier than the limit, collapse to form an even denser, and can form a black hole, or change its composition and sustained by some other mechanism (eg, by the degeneracy pressure of quarks and become in a quark star). Because the properties of other hypothetical forms of degenerate matter are even less known than those of neutron-degenerate matter, many astrophysicists adopt in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that a neutron star above the limit collapses directly a black hole. Black holes formed by the collapse of individual stars have a mass in the range of 1.5-3.0 (TOV limit) to 10 solar masses. A black hole formed by the collapse of a single star must have a mass exceeding the Tolman-Oppenheimer-Volkoff limit. Theory predicts this because of mass loss during stellar evolution. A black hole formed in an isolated star mass should have no more than about 10 solar masses. Observationally, because of its large mass relative fragility and X-ray spectrum of a massive number of binary X-ray objects are proposed as stellar black holes. These black hole candidates are estimated to be between 3 and 20 solar masses. References == ==