0735.6 MS 7421 or MS 0735 for short, is a cluster of galaxies located 2.6 billion light years from Earth and is composed of several dozen galaxies. In the center of a bright galaxy cluster seen in the core of a supermassive black hole with a mass equivalent to about 1000 million solar masses is located. It fires two long jets to near the speed of light, which emit radio waves speeds. The entire cluster is surrounded by gas blueness extremely hot X-ray emitting == One of the most powerful eruptions of the universe == The infrared image shows two large cavities, each about 600 000 light-years in a cloud of hot gas that pervades the entire galactic cluster. These cavities contain very little gas as they pass through two bubbles magnetized electrons emit radio waves at extremely high energy. These cavities emerge from the sides of one of the central galaxies of the group, which reveal a huge eruption produced by a supermassive black hole at the center of a galaxy, which creates these superstructures. The magnitude of such an eruption suggests that a huge amount of gas swirling at high speed around this black hole and generates a strong electromagnetic field which ejects a fraction of this gas in the form of powerful jets of high energy particles. The radio emissions from these two cavities show two jets generated from the black hole, the which form these cavities in the superhot gas, which is millions of degrees, which is ejected at supersonic speeds at greater distances to million light years. The estimated displaced by the gas jets mass is equivalent to a trillion suns, which equals more mass amount of which is in the Milky Way. Thanks to the images taken by the Chandra X-ray Observatory NASA astronomers have an idea of ​​the greed that can have one of these supermassive black holes and the effects it can have on the entire galactic cluster around him. The eruption that has been active for over 100 million years has generated energy equivalent to hundreds of millions of gamma-ray bursts. While most of the material is absorbed, a small portion of it is ejected at very high energies and close to that of light by the effects of the enormous values ​​of gravitational speeds when surrounding matter enters the black hole . While it is difficult to estimate where it came from so much of stuff together, one theory suggests that the gas in the galaxy hosting the black hole at its center cooled and began to cluster feeding catastrophically. The energy released shows that this black hole has grown dramatically in the center of MS 0735 during these eruptions. The rapid growth of supermassive black holes is usually detected by observing very bright radiation in the center of galaxies, both in the optical and X-ray band, or if not, to detect emissions from very light jets. However, in the particular case of MS 0735 no light or radiation is detected at its center and radio broadcasts of the two jets are rather weak; so the true nature of MS 0735 can only be revealed through the observation of the cluster gas and superheated in the X-ray band to estimate the energy required to create these cavities data density, temperature and pressure are used the hot gas. With the statistical assumption that only 10% of the gravitational energy escapes in the form of jets, one can estimate how much material has been swallowed the supermassive black hole. In addition to causing these huge cavities in the cloud of intergalactic gas, part of the energy released by these huge eruptions overheat the surrounding gas is cooled again and approaches the center of the galaxy which generates large-scale magnetic fields in galaxies cluster. Previous studies suggest that other black holes have grown very little in the recent past and that only smaller black holes can grow so fast rates. The Chandra telescope has found evidence of explosions in other cavities in other X-ray cluster of galaxies, but particularly cavities in MS 0735 are by far the largest and most powerful of all. To create this huge explosion, the supermassive black hole has swallowed some 300 million solar masses of gas in the last 100 million years. References == ==