OJ 287 is a BL Lac object that caused an almost periodic visible outbreak, going back about 100 years, when it first appears on photographic plates in 1891 it was detected at radio wavelengths during the course of the Ohio Sky Survey . Its central supermassive black hole has a mass of 18 billion times the mass of the Sun, more than six times the value calculated for the previous largest known. Located at 3500 million light years from Earth, is relatively close to the Earth to be a quasar. The light curve shows that OJ 287 has a periodic variation of between 11 and 12 years with a small double peak maximum brightness. Such variation suggests that your engine is a binary supermassive black hole where a (relatively) small black hole with about 100 million solar masses orbit the much larger black hole with an observable orbital period of 11-12 years. The maximum brightness is obtained when the minor component crosses the accretion disk of the supermassive component pericentre or apsis. The mass was calculated in a team led by Mauri Valtonen of Tuorla Observatory in Finland, the group and the results were presented to the public at the 211th meeting of the American Astronomical Society (AAS). The occurrence of these explosions allows the precession of the elliptical orbit of the companion is measured (39th per orbit), which allows the mass of the central black hole is calculated using the principles of general relativity Albert Einstein (see Problem Kepler in General Relativity). The accuracy of this measurement has been questioned due to the limited number and accuracy of orbital companions observed, but the calculated value may be mostly refined using future measurements. The orbit of the companion is declining due to the emission of gravitational waves and their merger is expected with the central black hole in about 10,000 years. The study has been published in the Astrophysical Journal. References == == * * External links == == * Support 18 Billions of Suns Einstein (Calar Alto Observatory) * Historical lightcurve of OJ 287 * Object: OJ 287 (SAO Observers) * OJ 287 2005-2008 Project (Tuorla Observatory) * A Supermassive Black Hole Pairing (Centauri Dreams) * OJ 287 2005-2008 Project