In general relativity, a naked singularity is a gravitational singularity event horizon lacking. The singularities in black holes are always surrounded by an area that prevents light leakage and therefore it is impossible to observe directly. A naked singularity, by contrast, would be a point in space where the density is infinite but would (hence the adjectives) observable from exterior.La existence - now theoretically of naked singularities is important because it would allow the observation of objects collapsing to infinite densities. == == Evidence by computer simulations of the collapse of a dust disk suggests that these objects may exist, and therefore the cosmic censorship hypothesis (which asserts that singularities are always hidden) would not apply to one absoluto.Se with this mode has an example of a mathematical difficulty (in this case the divergence infinite density) which shows a deep problem for the understanding of the physics involved in such a process possible. A workable theory of quantum gravity will probably be very useful for the resolution of such a hypothesized problema.Se cases where black holes due to high loads or high speeds, the surrounding area (the event horizon) the singularity it disappears leaving a visible ("naked") in the universe that conocemos.Se estimated, for example, by devise a considerable amount of electrical current through the singularity of a black hole an overlap of event horizons is cause and these then cease to exist, thereby forming a naked singularity. This amount of electricity required to use about all the electrons in each atom of the solar system which is of course impracticable. In late 2007, a team of researchers from the University of Cambridge led by Arlie Petters their calculations published in the Physical Review, believes that there is at present no black hole has been observed directly as to conclude that it is fully black . Petters and his team have calculated that black holes could lose the "protection" of the event horizon and become naked singularities in angular momentum if its mass exceeds such type of event would occur most likely in black holes whose masses were a 10 times higher than our Sun and possession of a "spin" of a few thousand rotations per second; in such situations it is assumed that the naked singularity would be evidenced by deforming the starlight behind it differently to deformation caused by a black hole mode. A major theoretical difficulty is that the theory of relativity is not suitable to describe such a type of gravitational singularity and therefore a region of our universe that he were under the influence of such objects could not be described by such instrumental theoretical; thus the hypothesis of the absence of naked singularities has been made by the famous English mathematician Roger Penrose in the 1970s largely giving rise to the notion of a "cosmic censorship". Stephen Hawking held a similar view and lost a bet when computer simulations tested the possibility of the existence of naked singularities if there is a negative energy. Thus the existence of naked singularities is a concept proposed by Hawking and Ellis the standard model of the universe alternative model; somewhat the same Big Bang in origin can be understood as a kind of naked singularity. == == cosmic censorship hypothesis of cosmic censorship hypotheses relate to mathematical conjectures on the structure of singularities as mentioned. The weak cosmic censorship hypothesis assumes that the only type of singularity is observable initial naked singularities as occurring the Big Bang model. == See also == * white * hole spacetime singularity * Penrose-Carter diagram == References ==== external links == (English) * naked singularity on arxiv.org * Magnification relations for Kerr lensing and testing cosmic censorship (in Italian) * Experiment hypothesized that would indirectly reveal naked singularities