V Puppis (V Pup / HD 65818 / HR 3129) is a variable-star system in the constellation Puppis, the stern of Argo Navis. Average apparent magnitude of 4.45, is about 1165 years of light from Earth. == Features == component V Puppis is a close binary star consisting of a blue main sequence star of spectral type and B1V B3IV one type subgiant. The first one, with the hottest temperature of 28,200 K, is the brightest of the pair, being its luminosity 16,900 times that of Sol.13 times more massive than the Sun, its radius is about 5.5 times larger than the radius solar.La subgiant star with a temperature of 26,600 K, shines with a luminosity 7,940 times the luminosity solar.Con 4.2 times larger than the Sun's radius, the mass of this second star is uncertain and may be between 7.8 and 11 solar masses. == system == Orbit the orbital period of the system, very short, is 1.4545 days. The separation between the components is 15 solar radii, so they are almost touching. In fact, the huge tidal force of the biggest star on the latter makes less fill its Roche lobe, mass transfer there from the subgiant companion star to its larger size. Also, since the orbit inclination of 11 °, a partial eclipse occurs when one star passes in front of the other; this is more pronounced when the small, cool star passes in front of the largest and hot. However, even beyond the time of the eclipse, the brightness of the system varies continuously due to the distortion caused by the tidal forces and rotation estelar.Además grounds, an additional factor makes this system a special case. The observation of eclipses over time has shown that the binary star is in orbit around another large mass, with a period of 5.47 years. The mass of this third object is greater than 10.4 solar mass, this being a known not below the orbit inclination limit. Kepler's laws awarded a distance of at least 10 AU from the binary star and the other object. This item does not emit light, so it is thought to be a black hole, the stellar remnant of the primary star of a triple star system that exploded as a supernova. == See also == * List of variable stars == References ==...