Ahmet Yakupoğlu, formerly Ahmet Çalışel, (born November 1920 in Kütahya) is a Turkish painter, neyzen ("ney" player) and Ottoman miniature and tezhip artist. In 1964, he changed his family name to Yakupoğlu.

Yakupoğlu was born to Hacı Halil Ağa and Şefika Hanım in Saray neighborhood of Kütahya. His interest for painting started when he was a child, observing the picture books attentively. He was schooled in Derviş Paşa Elementary School in 1927. During his education, he was exhibiting his paintings in the art galleries and also was successful at other lessons. Yakupoğlu had read all the picture books and books about the art of drawing and painting at Vahid Pasha Public Library before he finished secondary school.

In 1941, he found an opportunity to meet Prof. Süheyl Ünver, who came to Vahid Pasha Public Library for his manuscript research. After the graduation from Kütahya High School, he passed the entrance exam of Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University without any necessity to interview. He studied in Feyhaman Duran's workshop at the Department of Paintings, upon the recommendation of Süheyl Ünver and graduated from here (1941-1945). He learned Ottoman miniature, illumination, flute playing, musicology, from Süheyl Ünver and Halil Dikmen. After returning to Kütahya, he participated in some museum studies besides the painting.

Yakupoğlu has approximately two thousands original paintings; half of them are about streets, recreation spots, old historical buildings and the people of Kütahya Province.

He used the surname "Çalışel" before he changed it to "Yakupoğlu". He donated his house, library and all the paintings to Dumlupınar University.

Due to his many abilities and vast knowledge. he is also known as "the last Hezarfen" ("a thousand sciences" in Turkish), with reference to Hezârfen Ahmed Çelebi.

In 2006, Yakupoğlu donated all his paintings to Dumlupınar University in his hometown. Currently, he lives in Izmir with his adoptive daughter Havva Sökmener.

==Recognition==
In 2010, he was honored with the "Distinguished Service Order of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey" (TBMM Üstün Hizmet Ödülü).

He received the "Grand Prize of Culture and Art" (Kültür ve Sanat Büyük Ödülü) of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism bestowed by the President of Turkey in 2013.

==References==