Ahmet Vefik Alp (born 1948) is an architect and urbanist.

==Education==
Ahmet Vefik Alp obtained the Degrees of Architect and Diplome Architect in 1971 and 1973 from ITU Istanbul Technical University / Architecture with ‘High Honors’. He was appointed as Assistant Professor of Architecture tin 1973. In 1977 Alp joined Rice University, School of Architecture in Houston, Texas where he was awarded the Degrees of Master and Doctor of Architecture in 1979. His doctoral dissertation entitled 'Aesthetic Response to Geometry in Architecture' focuses into the domain of aesthetics and architectural / environmental psychology.

==Academia==
Dr. Alp was elevated to the rank of ‘Associate Professor’ in 1985. He was elected 'Professor' of the IAA International Academy of Architecture in 1989 and appointed as Founding President of the IAA Regional Centre in İstanbul in 1993.

In 1996 Dr. Alp was appointed as Professor and Chairman of the School of Architecture, Gebze Institute of Technology, Istanbul.

==Career==
In 1982, Dr Alp was invited to the College of Environmental Design, King Fahd University, Saudi Arabia where he has taught for seven year. During that period he has prepared the designs for the Turkish Embassy and Staff Housing Complex at Riyadh Diplomatic Quarter and supervised its construction. He has also worked on different projects of the University and his academic colleagues.

Alp is licensed as ‘Architect’ in Turkey as of 1971. He obtained his registration from Texas, US in 1984 as ‘Professional Architect’ and became a member of the Texas Society of Architects. The American Institute of Architects has accepted him as a full member in 1986. Professor Alp was qualified as Professional Interior Architect' by the Texas Board of Architectural Examiners In 1995.
Dr. Alp obtained the license of City Planner in Turkey in 1994.

In addition to his own Country and the Middle East, Dr. Alp has worked in Switzerland and Japan. Amongst the design schemes he has accomplished are the Turkish Pavilion, Yamagata, Japan; the Mosque & Cultural Centre of Turkey, Tokyo; the Marina Park Residences, Istanbul; the Campus of the Gebze Institute of Technology near Istanbul; Historic Villas in Bosphorus, Istanbul; International Tourism Trade Centre, Istanbul; Office Structures & Shopping Malls in Anatolia, Hilton Hotel and Shopping Complex in Kayseri; Political Party HQs, Ankara; Hotel and Mall, Istanbul; Residences and Mall, İstanbul and Izmir: Malatya City Hall, Turkey and a multitude of multifunctional complexes, cultural centers, housing, mosques, restoration projects, urban planning and design as well as landscape and interior design activity.

Ahmet Vefik Alp has been appointed as Chief Advisor to the Prime Minister of Turkey 1999-2002.
The Presidium of the International Academy of Architecture has bestowed upon him the distinguished title of ‘Academician’ in 2000.

In 1994, 1999, 2004 and 2009 respectively, he run for the Office of the Metropolitan Mayor of Greater Istanbul, and his proposals for the restoration of the disturbed ecology, history and urbanism of the City recognised wide attention. Alp has visited over 40 countries and speaks fluent English and French. Presently, he leads Alp Architects and Planners Ltd in Istanbul, heads Istanbul Center of the International Academy of Architecture and conducts design studios at Yeditepe University, Turkey.

==Awards==
In 2001 he was conferred the title of Honorable Member of the Kazgor Design Academy, Kazakhistan, and was elected as Member of the International Academy of Architecture for Eastern Countries.

Dr. Alp was the recipient of the European Property Awards 2011 for his schemes of ‘Malatya City Hall’ and ‘MHP Political Party HQS’, both in Turkey. The latter has been selected the ‘Best Public Service Building of Europe’ to compete for the ‘World’s Best’ title later this year.

== References ==

==External links==
* http://www.ahmetvefikalp.com/