Emrah Altinok is a Turkish photographer,  poet and musician.

==Early life==
He was born in 1980. He worked as a research assistant at Yildiz Technical University Faculty of Architecture City and Regional Planning Department between 2006 and 2012. He is an assistant professor at Istanbul Bilgi University Department of Architecture.

==Career==
As a poet, he has three poetry awards and two published books in Turkey. His poems have been published in literature magazines such as Kitap-lık, Varlık, E, Üç Nokta, Dize, Heves, Mahfil, Kum, Ağır Ol Bay Düz Yazı, Ücra, Budala, Ünlem, Islık, Başka, Yaba, Patika, and Kavram Karmaşa.

He led a poetry fanzine project called “gak şiir şeyi” which released seven volumes between January 2007 and November 2008. Within this project, he used the name “Franko Buskas” as a pseudonym and he defined his writings as “the broken poems”. Some critics found “the broken poems” published in “gak” during this nearly two years’ time as a reflection of an innovative and avant-garde attitude. During his journey of “gak”, besides “the broken poems”, Franko Buskas also performed in fields of art, so that he could associate these performances with his poetry.

This process began with “the blast” which could be interpreted as reflections of an unconscious state and pre-production period of “broken poetry”. The inscriptions of “the blast” appeared in early volumes of the fanzine. These inscriptions that look like drawing and handwriting evoked some works of Roland Barthes and Henri Michaux. In addition, he made some audio recordings that were more of like audio poems of a delirious mind along with “the blast”. Beginning with the release of “gak” vol.5, he started to make stencils in the streets of Istanbul.

The stencils that were called “proactive poetry” by Buskas had significance on bringing poetry to the streets and provided new poetic collective experiences.

As a musician, Emrah Altinok contributed albums by doing arrangements and playing guitar. He is the founder of a psychedelic rock band “etreh” which is planning to release an album in 2012. As a fine-art photographer, he has staged national and international exhibitions and has taken place in worldwide magazines. He specialises in advertising, fashion and celebrity photography.

==References==

==External links==
*