The galaxy cluster Abell 520 is an unusual structure that resulted from a fusion of larger galaxies. It has been popularly dubbed as Cumulus Train Crash due to its chaotic structure. It is classified as a cluster of type III ranking Bautz-Morgan. It is located at a radial distance of 811 Mpc comoving (2,645 × 109 al) and subtends an angle of 25 arc minutes in cielo.Este particular cluster represents a big problem for most accepted theories about dark matter and also for most alternative theories of modified gravity, as its dark matter content does not seem to behave as expected, as in other clusters. The cluster galaxies and intergalactic gas content are separated, as expected, for example in the Bullet Cluster. Also, this cluster seems to have as many galaxies as intergalactic gas, as would be expected for a cluster of this size. However, Abell 520 has a core that produces a large enough gravitational lens-that's where it is commonly thought that the dark-matter galaxy seems deserted or other type of normal matter is. In the most accepted theories about dark matter is thought that the latter should always be closely attached to the galaxies. Moreover, these theories also argue that the intergalactic gas only freely movable both the galaxies and the dark matter during collisions. Here, the core of dark matter appears to have little or no correlation with any of the other components of the cluster. So far it has not been determined how the dark matter and galaxies have been separadas.Un subsequent analysis of the movements of 293 galaxies in the cluster field has suggested that Abell 520 is "a cluster forming at the crossing of three filaments of large-scale structure. The filament aligned with the line of sight and projected into the center of the cluster formed could explain the apparent massive dark core obtained from the analysis of the gravitational lens. "In other words, the 'core' of dark matter might be associated with a filament aligned in the direction of observation and could not be in the center of the cluster. == See also == * Books * Bullet Cluster Abell == References == == external Links == * Universe Today, Cluster Galaxy Collision Creates a Dark Matter Dark Matter Core * Core Defies Explanation