350px | thumb | View of an artist from a black hole with acreción.Un black hole disk or black hole is a finite region of space in which there is a mass concentration high enough to generate a gravitational field such that no material particle , not even light, can escape it. However, black holes can be capable of emitting radiation, which was conjectured by Stephen Hawking in the 70s. Radiation emitted by black holes as Cygnus X-1 is not from the black hole itself but from its disk acreción.La gravity of a black hole, or "curvature of spacetime", causes a singularity surrounded by a closed surface, called the event horizon. This is provided by the Einstein field equations. The event horizon separates the region of the black hole and the rest of the universe is the boundary surface of the space from which no particle can go, including photons. This curvature is studied by general relativity, which predicted the existence of black holes and it was his first clue. At 70, Hawking, Ellis and Penrose proved several important theorems on the occurrence and geometry of black holes. Previously, in 1963, Roy Kerr had shown that a space-time four-dimensional black holes should all have a quasi-spherical geometry determined by three parameters: its mass M, the total electric charge e and angular momentum guess L.Se that at the center of most galaxies, including the Milky Way, there are supermassive black holes. The existence of black holes is supported by astronomical observations, especially through the emission of X-ray binary stars and active galaxies. == == Formation process black holes come from a process of gravitational collapse that was widely studied mid-twentieth century by various scientists, notably Robert Oppenheimer, Stephen Hawking and Roger Penrose and others. Hawking, in his informative book History of Time: from the Big Bang to Black Holes (1988) reviews some of the well-established facts about negros.Dicho hole formation process begins after the death of a red giant (star of great mass), call it death to the total extinction of their energy. After several billion years, the gravitational force of the star begins to exert force on itself causing a concentrated mass in a small volume, becoming a white dwarf. At this point, the process can continue until the collapse of the star by the gravitational self attraction this ends up turning into a white dwarf black hole. This process eventually gather a force of attraction so strong that even light traps in éste.En simpler words, a black hole is the end result of the action taken to the extreme gravity possible level. The same gravity that keeps the stable star, starts to compress to the point that the atoms start to collapse. Electrons orbiting ever closer to the atomic nucleus and eventually merging with protons to form more neutrons through the process: {{equation | p ^ e ^ - \ to n ^ {0 \ nu} _e | | left}} so this process would involve the emission of a large number of neutrinos. The end result, a neutron star. At this point, depending on the mass of the star, the plasma neutron irreversible triggers a chain reaction, the severity decreased greatly increases the distance between the atoms originally had. Implode neutron particles, flattening more, achieving results in a black hole, which is a region of spacetime bounded by the so-called event horizon. The details of what happens to the matter that falls beyond this horizon in a black hole are unknown because only small scales for a quantum theory of gravity could explain properly, but there is no completely consistent with the theory formulation. = = History == the black hole concept of a body so dense that not even light can escape from it, was described in a paper submitted in 1783 to the Royal Society by an English geologist named John Michell. By then Newton's theory of gravitation and the concept of escape velocity were well known. Michell estimated that a body with a radius 500 times that of the sun and the same density, it would, on its surface, an escape velocity equal to that of light and would be invisible. In 1796, the French mathematician Pierre-Simon Laplace explained in the first two editions of his book Exposition du Systeme du Monde the same idea though, to gain the idea that light was a wave massless in the nineteenth century was discarded posteriores.En editions 1915, Einstein developed general relativity and showed that light was influenced by the gravitational interaction. A few months later, Karl Schwarzschild found a solution to Einstein's equations, where a heavy body would absorb the light. It is now known that the Schwarzschild radius is the radius of the event horizon of a black hole does not rotate, but this was not well understood at the time. The Schwarzschild himself thought it was nothing more than a mathematical, not physical solution. In 1930, Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar showed that a body with a critical mass, (now known as the Chandrasekhar limit) and not emitiese radiation collapse under its own gravity because there was nothing that could stop it is known that (for that body force gravitational attraction would be greater than that provided by the Pauli exclusion principle). However, Eddington opposed the idea that the star would reach zero size, implying a naked singularity of matter, and I should have put something inevitably collapse brake line adopted by most científicos.En 1939 Robert Oppenheimer predicted that a massive star may undergo a gravitational collapse and therefore black holes could be formed in nature. This theory was not given much attention until the 60s because, after World War II, had more interest in what was happening to scale atómica.En 1967, Stephen Hawking and Roger Penrose proved that black holes are solutions to Einstein equations and in certain cases it could not prevent a black hole be created from a collapse. The black hole idea took hold with the scientific and experimental advances that led to the discovery of pulsars. Soon after, in 1969, John Wheeler coined the term "black hole" during a meeting in New York cosmologists to designate what was previously "star full gravitational collapse" was called. == Classification == In his theoretical origin, theoretically there may be at least three types of black holes: <- === === primordial black holes Those that were created early in the history of the Universe. Their masses can be varied and none have been observed. Although its mass should emit radiation in large quantities and would be more visible in the current state of the universe. -> === * === According mass supermassive black holes: with mass of several million solar masses. Would be in the heart of many galaxies. Are formed in the same process that gives rise to the spherical components of galaxies. * Stellar-mass black holes. They are formed when a star of mass 2.5 times that of the Sun goes supernova and implode. Its nucleus is concentrated in a very small volume is reduced whenever more. This is the type of black holes postulated for the first time in the theory of general relativity. * Micro black holes. They are hypothetical objects, somewhat smaller than stellar. If they are small enough, they can get to evaporate in a relatively short period through emission of Hawking radiation. This type of physical entities is postulated in some approaches to quantum gravity, but can not be generated by a conventional process of gravitational collapse, which requires higher than the mass of the Sun According to their physical properties === === For black hole described by Albert Einstein equations, there is a theorem of hairless called (in English No-hair theorem), which states that any object that undergoes gravitational collapse reaches a steady state as a black hole described by 3 parameters: its mass M, the charge Q and angular momentum J. Thus we have the following classification for the final state of a black hole: * the simplest black hole is possible, non-rotating Schwarzschild black hole has no charge * If no. turns but has electric charge, there is the black hole called Reissner-Nordstrøm. * A rotating black hole without charge is a Kerr black hole. * If also has charge, talk about a black hole Kerr-Newman.Las four previous solutions can be systematized as follows: == theoretical === Description ===== observable zones in the vicinity of a black hole is usually form an accretion disk, composed of matter with angular momentum, electric charge and mass , which is affected by the enormous gravitational pull of the same, leading inexorably cross the event horizon and, therefore, increase the size of agujero.En as for the light passing through the area of the disc, is also affected, such as foreseen by the Theory of Relativity. The effect is visible from Earth by the momentary deviation occurs in stellar positions known, when the light beams from the same pass that zona.Hasta today is impossible to describe what happens inside a black hole; You can only imagine, assume and observe their effects on matter and energy in the outer and near the event horizon and ergosfera.Uno of the most controversial effects implies the existence of a black hole areas is its apparent ability to reduce the entropy of the Universe, which would violate the fundamentals of thermodynamics, since all matter and electromagnetic energy that crosses the event horizon, have associated a level of entropy. Stephen Hawking proposed in one of his books that the only way that would not increase the entropy information of everything that crosses the event horizon forma.Otra still exists in some of the implications of a supermassive black hole is the probability that I was able to generate its complete collapse, becoming a naked singularity of matter === entropy in black hole === thumb |. right | alt = S = 1/4 k C3H-1G-1 A. | the formula Bekenstein-Hawking entropy for a hole negro.Según Stephen Hawking, black holes in the second law of thermodynamics is violated, giving rise to speculation about travel in space-time wormholes. This topic is still a matter of review; Hawking has now retracted his initial theory and has admitted that the entropy of matter is preserved in the interior of a black hole (see external link). According to Hawking, despite the physical impossibility of escape from a black hole, they can end the call evaporating by Hawking radiation, a source of X-rays escaping Skyline sucesos.El legacy Hawking delivery in this area is of those that infrequently in physics, are rated beautiful. Delivery mathematical insights that black holes have an intrinsic gravitational entropy. This implies that gravity introduces an additional level of unpredictability over quantum uncertainty. It seems, based on the current theoretical capacity, observational and experimental, as if nature took random decisions or, indeed, far more precise laws generales.La hypothesis that black holes contain an entropy and also this is finite, required to be consistent that such holes emit thermal radiation, which at first seems unbelievable. The explanation is that the emitted radiation escapes from the black hole, a region of the external observer knows only its mass, angular momentum and electric charge. That means they are all equally likely combinations or configurations of particle radiation having energy, angular momentum and electric charge equal. There are many possibilities of bodies if they want even more exotic, which can be emitted by a black hole, but this corresponds to a small number of configurations. The largest number of configurations corresponds to an emission far with a spectrum that is almost as Jacob D. Bekenstein térmico.Físicos have linked to black holes and the entropy information theory. Bekenstein's work on information theory and black holes suggested that the second law would remain valid if a generalized entropy (Sgen) that would provide a conventional entropy (Sconv), attributable to the entropy of black holes depends on the area that was introduced Total (A) black hole in the universe. Specifically this generalized entropy should be defined as :: S_ {gene} = S_ {conv} \ frac {c ^ 3k} {4G \ hbar} where k is the Boltzmann constant, c is the speed of light, G is the gravitational constant and \ hbar is the rationalized Planck constant, and A the area of the event horizon. === Definition of black hole === Although there intuitive explanations of the behavior of a black hole, in theoretical cosmology there is no simple definition of what constitutes a black hole, and all the theoretical work with sophisticated topological definitions of what constitutes a black hole. In fact a compact spacetime no adequate and generally define what conditions should apply a region to be considered a black hole. In non-compact space-times some technical conditions required to decide whether a region is a black hole, it is said that in a spacetime asymptotically flat and predictable (containing a Cauchy hypersurface that satisfies certain requirements), we say that there is a region of black hole if the causal past of the hypersurface type light located in the infinite future does not contain the entire space-time (that means that the hypersurface is unreachable from some points of spacetime, precisely those contained in the area of black hole). The boundary of the causal past of the future light hypersurface type is the event horizon. ===? Theoretical impossibility of black holes? There are strong mathematical results === under which a metric theory of gravity (such as general relativity) predicts the formation of black holes. These results are known as singularity theorems that predict the occurrence of spacetime singularities (and if the cosmic censorship hypothesis is accepted, therefore the formation of black holes). The Einstein field equations for general relativity allowed situations for which the conditions of occurrence of singularities are met and therefore the singularity theorems show that black holes are possible within general relativity. However, some alternative metric theories as the relativistic theory of gravitation, similar to general relativity in almost all aspects and which also explains the facts observed in the solar system and the expansion of the universe, using slightly different field equations where always true that local absence of matter and under the conditions of causality theory, for any isotropic vector field (light vector type) defined on the space-time inequality is true: {{equation | R_ {\ mu \ nu} v ^ \ mu v ^ \ nu \ le 0 | | left}} This condition implies that the conditions of the theorems mentioned above are not met and, therefore, they can not be applied to predict the existence of singularities and therefore negros.Dado holes that experimental data do not allow to discern which of the two theories (general relativity or Einstein relativistic gravitation Logunov) is correct, as both coincide for most of the well-established observational facts can not be taken for granted that black holes are a necessary consequence of gravitation == black holes in current physics == physical phenomena are explained by two competing theories in a principles-based and incompatible mode. quantum mechanics which explains the nature of "the very small ', where chaos prevails and statistics and supports non-deterministic cases temporal evolution, and general relativity, which explains the nature of" the heavy "and states that at all times you can know exactly where a body is, this being fully deterministic theory. Both theories are experimentally confirmed but, in attempting to explain the nature of a black hole, it is necessary to discern whether quantum applies be very small or relativity for being so annoying. Clearly not available until a more advanced physics do not get really explain the nature of this phenomenon. === === Recent Discoveries In 1995 a team of researchers led by Andrea Ghez UCLA demonstrated by computer simulation the possibility of the existence of supermassive black holes in the nuclei of galaxies. After these calculations using the adaptive optics system was verified that some distorted light rays emitted from the center of our galaxy (the Milky Way). Such deformation is due to an unseen supermassive black hole has been called Sgr.A (or Sagittarius A). In 2007-2008 a series of experiments were initiated interferometry from measurements of radio telescopes to measure the size of the supermassive black hole at the center of the Milky Way, which he calculates a 4.5 million times the mass of the Sun and a distance of 26,000 light-years (about 255,000 trillion miles about the Earth). The supermassive black hole at the center of our galaxy would be very active today and has spent much of the baryonic matter, found in the immediate gravitational field and emits large amounts of radiación.Por Meanwhile, astrophysics Feryal Özel explained some probable features around a black hole: anything, including empty space between the tidal force caused by a black hole would accelerate to extreme speed and a vortex and all the time in the area of attraction of a black hole would be directed toward the same hole negro.En this is considered that despite the destructive perspective we have of black holes, they condense around the other stuff they serve in part to the formation of galaxies and the formation of new estrellas.En June 2004 astronomers discovered a supermassive black hole, the Q0906 6930, in the center of a distant about 12,700 million light years galaxy. This observation indicated a rapid creation of supermassive black holes in the Universe joven.La formation of micro black holes in particle accelerators has been reported but not confirmed. So far, no observed candidates for primordial black holes. ==== ==== Major aside supermassive black holes that are often at the core of galaxies whose mass are billions of times our sun , the largest stellar mass black hole known to date was discovered in 2007 and was named IC 10 X-1. It's in the dwarf galaxy IC 10 located in the constellation of Cassiopeia, a distance of 1.8 million light (17 billion kilometers) from Earth years, with a mass of between 24 and 33 times that of our Sol.Posteriormente in April 2008, the journal Nature published a study in the University of Turku (Finland). In this study, a team of scientists led by Mauri Valtonen discovered a binary system, a blazar called OJ 287 in the constellation of Cancer. Such a system seems to be constituted by a smaller black hole orbits another larger, with mass greater than 18,000 million times that of our Sun, making it the largest black hole known. It is assumed that in each interval the smallest black hole rotation, which has a mass of 100 million suns, the greatest hits ergosfera twice, generating a quasar. Located at 3500 million light years from Earth, is relatively close to the Earth to be a quasar ==== ==== The lower Excluding possible micro black holes that are almost always ephemeral subatomic scales to occur.; macroscopically in April 2008 and coordinated by Nikolai Lev Titarchuk Saposhnikov team has identified the smallest known black holes to date; has been called J 1650, is located at Ara (or Altar) constellation of the Milky Way (the same galaxy which is part of the Earth). J 1650 has a mass equivalent to 3.8 soles and only 24 km in diameter have been formed by the collapse of a star; such dimensions were provided by the Einstein equations. Are considered to be almost the minimum dimensions that can have a black hole and a star to collapse and produce a lower mass phenomenon would become a neutron star. It is considered that there may be many more black holes of similar dimensions. ==== ==== Plasma jets In April 2008, the journal Nature published a study at Boston University led by Alan Marscher explaining that plasma jets start collimated magnetic fields located near the edge of black holes. In specific areas such magnetic fields the plasma jets are focused and accelerated to speeds close to c (speed of light), this process is comparable to the acceleration of particles to create a jet stream (jet) in a reactor. When plasma jets originate from a black hole are observable from Earth such type of black hole falls into the category of a black hole blazar.Que "emit" radiation seems a contradiction, but this is explained: every object (assume an star) which is trapped by the gravitational pull of a black hole before being completely "swallowed" before moving behind the event horizon, is so strongly pressed by the tidal forces of the black hole in the region of the ergosphere that a small part of your stuff shoots out at near the speed of light (as when tightly squeezed orange: a hole of the material ejected orange leaves as juice squirts in the case of objects trapped black, of its mass shoots out centrifugally as radiation outside the gravitational field of the singularity). === star Formation by the influx of black holes === New stars could be formed from elliptical discs around black holes; such elliptical discs are produced by ancient gas clouds previously disintegrated by the same black hole; the stars produced by condensation or elliptical accretion disks such apparently have highly elliptical orbits around the supermassive black holes. === === Hawking Radiation Until the early 1970s it was thought that black holes do not directly emit any matter, and its ultimate fate was to continue to grow by accretion of more and more stuff. However, a consideration of quantum effects in the event horizon of a hole led Hawking to discover a physical process by which the hole could emit radiation. According to the uncertainty principle of quantum mechanics there is a possibility that the horizon pairs of particle-antiparticle short duration to form since the probability that one of the elements of the pair fall within hole irreversibly and the other member of the pair escape the principle of conservation requires that the hole mass decreases to compensate for the energy the pair escaping the vicinity of the event horizon takes. Note that in this process the pair form strictly outside the black hole, so it does not contradict the fact that no material particle can leave the interior. But yes there is a net effect of energy transfer from the black hole to its surroundings, which is the Hawking radiation, whose production does not violate any physical principle. == Note == language in countries such as Spain or Argentina, where difference between a hole (concavity) and a hole (opening) the term "black hole" should be used. In countries such as Mexico and Chile where I hole and hole are synonymous, they are also looking "black hole" and "black hole". == See also == * white * Hole Worm Hole * black hole Kerr black hole Kerr * *-Newman black hole Reissner-Nordstrøm * Schwarzschild black hole Penrose diagram * neutron * Star * active * elliptical galaxy M87 Galaxy * History of Time (Hawking book) * Magnetar microhole * black * astronomical * Object * Holographic Principle pulsar * Radiation * Hawking * naked Singularity Theory fecund universes Karl Schwarzschild * People * Kip Thorne * Stephen Hawking Leonard Susskind * == References ==== References == * Hawking, SW & Ellis, GFR: The Large Scale . Structure of Space-time, Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 1973, ISBN 0-521-09906-4 * AA Logunov, 1998, Course Theory of Relativity and gravitation, Estatatal Lomonosov University, Moscow, ISBN 5 - . 88417-162-5 * Wald, RM: General Relativity the (cap. 12 "Black Holes"), Chicago, The University of Chicago Press, 1984, ISBN 0-226-87032-4. == External Links == * Celestia Educational Video Project to understand black holes (video # 28). * Hundreds ready to devour everything in its path in our galaxy * Finnish scientists black holes were able to calculate the mass of the largest known black hole in space * Video (in English) that simulates falling into a black hole * Video conference outreach Black Holes by Enrique Borja Fernandez