The Bullet Cluster (1E 0657-56) consists of two galaxy clusters colliding. Studies done on this cluster, presented in August 2006, up until then the best evidence for the existence of dark matter. Strictly speaking, the name "Bullet Cluster" refers to a small subcúmulo moving away from a larger cluster. == == Properties and morphology The Bullet Cluster is one of the hottest clusters of galaxies known. Viewed from Earth, one of the components passed through the center of the cluster about 150 million years ago, which a shock wave is created in an arc located on the right side of the cluster. This shock wave is formed by passing gas to 70 million degrees Celsius contained in the subcúmulo through gas at a temperature of 100 million degrees at the center of the cluster at a rate of about 10 million kilometers per hour. = = the Bullet Cluster as evidence for dark matter == the main components of the cluster stars, gas and dark matter behave differently during a collision, so that it is possible to study each of them separately . The stars in the galaxies seen in visible light, are not altered when a collision occurs, although its movement itself is changed, being gravitationally slowed. The hot gas of the two colliding components and is observed in X-ray represents the majority of the mass of ordinary matter, called baryonic matter. The third component, dark matter, detected indirectly via known as gravitational lensing that affect objects in the background phenomenon. In theories that do not account for the dark matter, as modified Newtonian dynamics, would be expected to occur due to gravitational lensing baryonic matter such as X-ray emitting gas, however, this phenomenon is more pronounced in two separate regions near of the visible galaxies. This strengthens the idea that most of the mass in the system is not affected by dark matter colisiones.Los more conclusive results were inferred from satellite observations in this cluster Chandra published by Markevitch et al. and clowe et al. both in 2004. These authors report that the cluster experiences a high melting rate, which is evident from the spatial distribution of the hot gas of X-ray emitting gas is subcúmulos behind while all dark matter is before the gas. == See also == * dark Matter * Cluster galaxies == References ==