thumb | Image of Gliese 229B, a brown dwarf. A brown dwarf is an object of substellar mass, unable therefore to maintain constant hydrogen nuclear fusion reactions in the core. However, just having chemical differentiation by depth, as it has been at some point in their lives convection from the surface to the center because of weak fusion reactions of residual isotopes. The upper limit of mass is relatively well known, being between 75 and 80 mass jovianas (M_J), depending on the degree of metallicity. Regarding the lower limit that the part with the most massive gas giant, this would be about 13 M_J, time after which the object is able to blend all the deuterium. From 65 M_J plus deuterium tritium also burn. Deuterium burning occurs in his youth and is possible due to its low melting temperature, about 100,000 K. Since the deuterium fuel is a minority that disappears quickly, this reaction can not sustain the collapse. Brown dwarfs continue to shine for a while due to the residual heat of the reactions and the slow contraction of matter that way. Brown dwarfs continue to contract, and cooling to reach equilibrium. It is believed that brown dwarfs are stars 'failed' because they contain the same materials as a star like the Sun, but with very little mass to shine. They are very similar to the gaseous planets; are not planets at all but are not all stars. Historical notes == == In 1963 the Indian origin astrophysicist Shiv Kumar was the first to theoretically study the evolution and properties of stars of much lower mass than those known at the time. His calculations correspond to what is now called brown dwarfs. Kumar black dwarfs called these objects. Brown Dwarf The name was proposed in 1975 by astrophysicist Jill Tarter, famous for being the spokesman SETI project. There is disagreement about the use of the brown dwarf or brown dwarf names worldwide, although Spanish was mostly brown dwarf tax. The first brown dwarf was verified Teide 1, 1995, the IAC-80 telescope of the Observatorio del Teide (Tenerife) by a Spanish group of astrophysicists belonging to the IAC. The brown dwarf Gliese 229B best characterized is the companion of lower mass of the star Gliese 229. Identification and proof == == Lithium thumb | This illustration shows the size of our Sun compared to a brown dwarf, Jupiter and Earth. Lithium is an especially interesting to differentiate these objects of low mass stars element, as it is rapidly destroyed in the fusion reactions of hydrogen (in particular in the PPII chains) because it reacts with hydrogen only 1,000. 000 K. the low-mass stars (S) are fully convective, so that their interiors are well mixed and lithium is burned along with the hydrogen in a few million years. Instead, the stars of masses similar to or greater than the Sun itself that keep lithium in their atmospheres because convection does not penetrate to the core. In a brown dwarf, because of their low mass, hydrogen fails to achieve the temperatures and pressures necessary to trigger its fusion and lithium is not destroyed, remaining in the brown dwarf during its entire existence. This lithium can be detected through their characteristic emission spectra, constituting this test classic mode identification of brown dwarfs. The test was first used by the group led by Rafael Rebolo IAC. The test is not perfect, as there may be very low-mass stars in which lithium burning not yet been completed due to slow reactions. The possibility of measuring the absence of deuterium to check if it is a brown dwarf or not also shuffled, but this information is revealed more difficult to measure, since the spectral lines of hydrogen and deuterium are very similar. Brightness and spectral type == == The low-energy emission from these stars takes it very difficult to observe in a direct way from great distances. Despite this, several hundred brown dwarfs have been identified, with surface temperatures ranging between 800 and 2000 degrees Celsius. The surface temperature is an increasing function with mass and decreases with the age of the object. == Brown Dwarfs and extrasolar planets == Due to its low mass, intermediate between the giant planets and low-mass stars, brown dwarfs are a unique link between the two types of bodies. In particular, the formation of brown dwarfs gravitational collapse is unknown and can not be known at this time if formed as a planet inside a circumstellar disk from a core of solid material, or as stars from fragmentation and of a molecular cloud. In 2003 was detected in the Orion constellation a group of brown dwarf type objects as small as five Jovian masses masses. External links == == * Picture of the Hubble Space Telescope Gliese 229B * Article disclosure Castilian. * Project Celestia Educational Activity: The Life and Death of Stars Technical References === === * Discovery of a Brown Dwarf in the Pleiades Star Cluster, Rebolo et al. Nature, 1995, 377, 129. * Discovery of Young, Isolated Planetary Mass Objects in the σ Orionis Star Cluster, Zapatero-Osorio et al. Science, 2000, 290, 103.