In astrophysics and physical cosmology, dark matter is referred to the hypothetical matter that does not emit enough electromagnetic radiation to be detected with current technology, but whose existence can be inferred from gravitational effects on visible causing such matters as stars or galaxies, as well as the anisotropies of the cosmic microwave background in the universe. Not to be confused with dark matter dark energy. According to current observations (2010) of structures larger than a galaxy, as well as Big Bang cosmology, dark matter is of the order of 21% of the mass of the observable universe and dark energy 70%. Dark matter was proposed by Fritz Zwicky in 1933 to evidence of a "no visible mass" affecting the orbital velocities of galaxies in clusters. Subsequently, other observations have indicated the presence of dark matter in the universe: these observations include that rotational speed of galaxies, gravitational lensing of background objects by galaxy clusters such as the Bullet Cluster (1E 0657- 56) and the temperature distribution of hot gas in galaxies and clusters of galaxies. Dark matter also plays a central role in structure formation and galaxy evolution, and has measurable effects on the anisotropy of the microwave background radiation. All these evidence suggest that galaxies, clusters of galaxies and the entire universe contains far more matter than that which interacts with electromagnetic radiation: the remainder is called the "dark matter component." The composition of dark matter is unknown, but may include ordinary and heavy neutrinos, recently postulated elementary particles such as WIMPs and axions, astronomical bodies such as dwarf stars and planets (collectively called MACHO) and non-luminous gas clouds. Current evidence favors models in which the primary component of dark matter is new elementary particles collectively called non-baryonic dark matter. The dark matter component has much more mass than the "visible" component of the Universe. At present, the density of ordinary baryons and radiation in the universe is estimated to be approximately equivalent to one hydrogen atom per cubic meter of space. Only about 5% of the total energy density in the Universe (inferred from gravitational effects) can be observed directly. It is estimated that around 23% is composed of dark matter. The remaining 72% is thought to consist of dark energy, an even stranger component, distributed diffusely in space. Some difficult to detect baryonic matter makes a contribution to the dark matter, although some authors argue that is only a small portion. Still, keep in mind that the estimated 5% baryonic matter (half of it has not yet been detected) can be considered baryonic dark matter: All the stars, galaxies and gas observable form less than half of the baryons (which is supposed to be) and it is believed that all this stuff can be distributed in low density gaseous filaments forming a network throughout the universe and whose nodes are the various clusters of galaxies. In May 2008, the XMM-Newton telescope of the European Space Agency has found evidence of the existence of such a network of filaments. Determining the nature of this invisible mass is one of the most important issues of modern cosmology and particle physics. It has been revealed that the names "dark matter" and "dark energy" serve mainly as expressions of our ignorance, almost like the first maps labeled "Terra incognita". , Dark matter and antimatter Dark matter, dark energy and antimatter are three completely different things. Antimatter is like ordinary matter from which we are made, but made ​​up of particles whose electric charge is of opposite sign. For example, an anti-electron (also known for historical reasons as positron), is a particle like the electron, with the same mass and electric charge but positive sign (the electron has a negative charge). And an anti-proton is a particle with the same amount of mass and charge of a proton, but with negative electric charge sign. Antimatter form with particle: the same way that a hydrogen atom is an electron orbiting a proton, if juntáramos an anti-proton with an anti-electron may have an atom of anti-hydrogen, which has been achieved at CERN, for a split second. Testing observations == == The first person to provide evidence and infer the existence of the phenomenon has been called "dark matter" was Swiss astrophysicist Fritz Zwicky, of the California Institute of Technology (Caltech) in 1933. He applied the virial theorem to the Coma cluster of galaxies and obtained evidence of unseen mass. Zwicky estimated the cluster's total mass based on the motions of galaxies near its edge. When he compared this estimate with the estimated number of galaxies and total brightness of the cluster mass, found that there were about 400 times more mass than expected. The gravity of the visible galaxies in the cluster was very low for such orbital speed, so it takes much more. This is known as the "missing mass problem". Based on these conclusions, Zwicky inferred that there should be some form of "invisible matter" that would provide enough mass and gravity constitute the entire cluster. Much of the evidence for the existence of dark matter comes from the study of the motions of galaxies. Many of these appear to be fairly uniform, so the virial theorem the total kinetic energy should be half the total gravitational energy of galaxies. However, it has been experimentally found that the total kinetic energy is much greater: in particular, assuming the gravitational mass is due only to the visible matter in the galaxy, the stars away from the center of galaxies have much higher velocities than predicted by the virial theorem. The galactic rotation curve showing the rotation speed versus distance from the center of the galaxy, can not be explained by only the visible matter. Assuming that visible matter makes up only a small part of the cluster, is the simplest way to account for this. Galaxies show signs of being composed mainly of a halo of dark matter concentrated at its center, with nearly spherical symmetry, with the visible matter concentrated in a central disk. The weak surface brightness galaxies are important sources of information for the study of dark matter, as they have a low ratio of visible matter with respect to the dark matter, and have several bright stars in the center that facilitates the observation of the curve peripheral rotation stars. According to the results published in August 2006, dark matter has been detected separately from ordinary matter through measures Bullet Cluster, actually two nearby galaxy clusters that collided about 150 million years ago. The researchers analyzed the effects of gravitational lensing to determine the total mass of both distribution and compared with maps of X hot gases, which were thought to constitute the majority of ordinary matter in clusters rays. The hot gases interacted during the collision and remained near the center. Individual galaxies and dark matter interacted and are farther from the center. Galactic rotation curves === === thumb | right | 300px | rotation curve of a typical spiral galaxy: predicted (A) and observed (B). Dark matter would explain the appearance of the flat rotation curve at large radii. For nearly 40 years after Zwicky's initial observations, no other corroborating observations observation indicated that the mass-light ratio was different from unity (a high mass-light ratio indicates the presence of dark matter). But in the late 1960s and 1970s, Vera Rubin, an astronomer's Department of Terrestrial Magnetism at the Carnegie Institution of Washington presented findings based on a new sensitive spectrograph that could measure the velocity curve of spiral galaxies with an accuracy greater than anything previously achieved. Together with fellow staff Kent Ford, Rubin announced at a meeting in 1975 of the American Astronomical Society the astonishing discovery that many stars on different orbits of spiral galaxies rotating at almost the same angular velocity, implying that their densities were very uniform beyond the location of many of the stars (the galactic bulge). This result suggests that non-Newtonian gravity even universally applied or, conservatively, over 50% of the mass of galaxies was contained in the relatively dark galactic halo. This discovery was initially taken with skepticism but Rubin insisted that the observations were correct. Later, other astronomers began to corroborate her work and is able to determine very well the fact that many galaxies were dominated by "dark matter", and the exceptions seem to be galaxies with mass-to-light ratios close to those of the stars. Result, numerous observations have indicated the presence of dark matter in various parts of the cosmos. Together with Rubin's findings for spiral galaxies and Zwicky's work on galaxy clusters, have been gathering more evidence related to dark matter for decades to the point that today many astrophysicists accept its existence. As a unifying concept, dark matter is one of the key features considered in the analysis of structures on a galactic scale and larger. === Speed ​​dispersion of galaxies === Rubin's pioneering work has stood the test of time. Measurements of velocity curves in spiral galaxies soon speeds continued dispersion of elliptical galaxies. While sometimes appears with lower mass-light ratios, measurements of ellipticals still indicate a relatively high content of dark matter. Likewise, measures of diffuse interstellar media found on the edge of galaxies indicate not only the distribution of dark matter extending beyond the visible limit of the galaxies, but also that galaxies are virializadas over ten times its visible radius. This involved estimating the material as a fraction of the total gravitational mass from 50% measured by Rubin currently estimated to almost 95%. There are places where dark matter seems to be a small component or totally absent. Globular clusters contain not show evidence of dark matter, although their orbital interactions with galaxies show evidence for galactic dark matter. For some time, measurements of the speed range of the stars seemed to indicate concentration of dark matter in the galactic disk of the Milky Way; however, it now appears that the high concentration of baryonic matter in the disk of the galaxy (especially in the interstellar medium) can influence this movement. The profiles of the masses of galaxies are thought to look very different from the profiles of light. The typical model for dark matter galaxies is a smooth, spherical distribution in virialized halos. That should be the case to avoid the dynamic effects on a small scale (stellar). Research conducted in January 2006 at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst would explain the previously mysterious curvature on the disk of the Milky Way by the interaction of the Large and Small Magellanic Clouds and predicted an increase of 20 times the mass of the Milky Way taking into account dark matter. In (2005), astronomers from Cardiff University have discovered exposed a galaxy made ​​almost entirely of dark matter, 50 million light years away in the Virgo cluster, which was named VIRGOHI21. Unusually, VIRGOHI21 not appear to contain any visible stars: it was seen with radio frequency observations of hydrogen. Based on rotation profiles, the scientists estimate that this object contains approximately 1000 times more dark energy than hydrogen and has a total mass of one tenth of the Milky Way. By comparison, the Milky Way is believed to have about ten times more dark matter than ordinary matter. The models of the Big Bang and the large scale structure of the Universe have suggested that such dark galaxies should be very common in the Universe, but not detected any. If the existence of these dark galaxies is confirmed, it will provide a great test for the theory of galaxy formation and pose problems for alternative explanations for dark matter. === Dark matter in clusters of galaxies === Dark matter and also affects galaxy clusters. X-ray measurements of hot intracluster gas correspond closely to Zwicky's observations of mass-to-light ratios for large clusters of nearly 10 to 1 Many experiments of the Chandra X-ray Observatory use this technique to independently determine the mass of clusters. The galaxy cluster Abell 2029 is composed of thousands of galaxies enveloped in a cloud of hot gas and an amount of dark matter equivalent to more than 1014 suns. In the center of this cluster there is an enormous elliptical galaxy that is thought to be formed from the union of many smaller galaxies. The orbital velocities of galaxies measures within clusters of galaxies are consistent with observations of dark matter. An important tool to detect dark matter is gravitational lensing. These lenses are an effect of general relativity predicts that the dynamics depends on the masses, with a completely independent way to measure dark energy. In strong lensing, the observed distortion of the curved background galaxies, when light passes through a gravitational lens, has been observed around some distant cluster Abell 1689 as measuring the geometric distortion, we can obtain the mass the cluster that causes the phenomenon. In dozens of cases where this has been done measuring the mass-to-light ratios obtained correspond to measures of dark matter dynamics of clusters. During the last ten years has developed a more convincing weak-such technique called time measuring lens distortions of galaxies at a microscale at large distances due to background objects by statistical analysis. Examining the deformation of adjacent background galaxies, astrophysicists can obtain the average distribution of dark energy by statistical methods and find the mass-light ratios that correspond to dark matter densities predicted by other measures of large-scale structures. The correspondence between the two techniques: gravitational lensing together with other measures of dark matter, have convinced almost all astrophysicists that dark matter is actually the largest component of the Universe. Structure formation === === Dark matter is crucial for the cosmological model of the Big Bang as a component that directly corresponds to the measurements of the parameters associated with the FLRW metric of general relativity. In particular, measurements of the anisotropies of the cosmic microwave background correspond to a cosmology where much of the matter interacts with photons more weakly than the known fundamental forces that couple light interactions to baryonic matter. Also, a significant amount of non-baryonic cold matter is needed to explain the large-scale structure of the universe. Observations suggest that structure formation in the universe proceeds hierarchically, with smaller structures joining to form galaxies and then clusters of galaxies. According sutures fuse in the evolution of the Universe, begin to "shine" as the baryonic matter heats up through gravitational contraction and the objects are close to hydrostatic equilibrium. Ordinary baryonic matter would have too high a temperature and too much pressure released from the Big Bang to collapse and form smaller, like stars, through the Jeans instability structures. Dark matter acts as a compactor of structure. This model not only corresponds with statistical investigations of visible structure in the universe but also corresponds precisely with the predictions of dark matter in the microwave background radiation. This inverse model of structure formation requires some kind of dark matter to work. We used computer simulations of billions of dark matter particles to confirm that the cold dark matter model of structure formation is consistent with the structures observed in the Universe through observations of galaxies, such as the Sloan Digital Sky Survey 2dF Galaxy Redshift and Survey, and the observations of the Lyman-alpha forest. These studies have been crucial in constructing the Lambda-CDM model which measures the cosmological parameters, including the part of the universe consists of baryons and dark matter. Composition == == dark matter Although dark matter was detected by gravitational lensing in August 2006, many aspects of dark matter remain challenged. The DAMA / NaI experiment claims to have detected dark matter passing through the Earth, though many scientists remain skeptical since negative results of other experiments are (almost) incompatible with the results of DAMA if the dark matter is neutralinos. Data from several types of tests, such as the problem of the rotation of galaxies, gravitational lensing, structure formation and the fraction of baryons in clusters and abundance of clusters, combined with independent evidence for the baryon density, indicate that 85-90% of the mass in the universe does not interact with the electromagnetic force. This "dark matter" is evidenced by its gravitavional effect. Have been proposed several categories of dark matter: * Baryonic Dark Matter. * Non-baryonic dark matter which is divided into three different types: Hot Dark Matter **: no baryonic particles moving ultrarrelativistamente. Warm Dark Matter **: no baryonic particles moving relativistically. Cold Dark Matter **: no baryonic particles that move relativistically. Davis and others wrote in 1985: Hot dark matter consists of particles that travel with relativistic velocities. A type of hot dark matter, the neutrino is known. Neutrinos have a very small mass, do not interact via electromagnetic forces or the strong nuclear force and are therefore very difficult to detect. This is what makes them appealing as dark matter. However, the limits of the neutrinos indicate that ordinary neutrinos only make a small contribution to the density of dark matter. Hot dark matter can not explain how galaxies formed from the Big Bang. The microwave background radiation measured by COBE and WMAP, is incredibly smooth, indicates that matter has been grouped into very small scales. The fast-moving particles, however, can not be grouped in such small scales and, in fact, suppress the grouping of other stuff. Hot dark matter, even exists in our universe in the form of neutrinos is therefore the only part of the story. thumb | right | 375px | Estimated distribution of dark matter and dark energy in the universe. The concordance model needs to explain the structure in the Universe, it is necessary to invoke the (non-relativistic) cold dark matter. The masses, like black holes the size of galaxies can be discarded with the basis of the data of gravitational lenses. The possibilities involving ordinary baryonic matter include brown dwarfs or perhaps small, dense chunks of heavy elements which are known as massive compact objects of type halo (massive compact halo object) or "MACHOs". However, studies of the Big Bang nucleosynthesis have convinced many scientists that baryonic matter such as MACHOs can not be more than a small fraction of the total dark matter. The most widely accepted point of view is that dark matter is primarily non-baryonic, made of one or more different elementary particles of normal electrons, protons, neutrons, and known neutrinos. The most commonly proposed particles are axions, sterile neutrinos and WIMPs (weakly interacting massive particles, including neutralinos). None of these are part of the standard model of particle physics, but may appear in extensions of the standard model. Many supersymmetric models naturally cause the neutralinos as WIMPs. Heavy sterile neutrinos exist in extensions of the standard model which explains the small neutrino masses through the seesaw mechanism. They have been carried out experimental searches for these dark matter candidates and continue. These efforts can be divided into two broad categories: direct detection, in which the dark matter particles are observed in a detector, and the indirect detection searches for products of dark matter annihilations. The detection experiments have ruled out some dark matter WIMP and axion models. There are also several experiments claiming positive tests for dark matter, as the DAMA / NaI and the Egret, but are far from being confirmed and hardly reconcile the negative results of other experiments. Several dark matter searches are currently underway, as the Cryogenic Dark Matter Search in the Soudan Mine and the XENON experiment at Gran Sasso and others in development, such as ArDM experiment. In research published in the spring of 2006, researchers at the Institute of Astronomy at Cambridge University claim to have calculated that dark energy is only in clusters over 1,000 light year radius, implying an average speed for dark matter particles 9 km / s, a density of 20 amu / cm and a temperature of 10000 Kelvin. Problem == == dark matter Estimates based on the gravitational effects of the amount of matter in the universe suggest consistently that there is much more stuff that can be observed directly. Moreover, the existence of dark matter would solve several inconsistencies in the Big Bang theory. It is believed that most of the mass of the universe exist in this form. Determine the nature of dark matter is called "dark matter problem" or "missing mass problem" and is one of the most important of modern cosmology. The question of the existence of dark matter may seem irrelevant to our existence on earth but the fact of whether or not affect the ultimate fate of the universe. It is known that the universe is expanding, redshift by showing the light from distant celestial bodies. If there is no dark matter, this expansion would continue forever. If the current dark matter hypothesis is correct, depending on the amount of dark matter that is, the universe's expansion could slow, stop or even reverse (which would produce the phenomenon known as Big Crunch). However, the importance of dark matter for the final fate of the universe has been revisited in recent years, in which the existence of a cosmological constant and dark energy seems to be even more important. According to measurements made in 2003 and 2006 by the WMAP satellite, the expansion of the universe is accelerating, and will continue to accelerate due to the existence of dark energy, but without causing Big Rip. Alternative explanations == == Modifications of gravity === === An alternative to the issues raised by the dark matter explanation is to assume that the observed inconsistencies are due to an incomplete understanding of gravity. To explain the observations, over long distances, the gravitational forces are stronger than Newtonian mechanics would indicate. For example, this could occur if a negative value for the cosmological constant (value estimated positive based on recent observations) or the theory of modified Newtonian dynamics (MOND), which corrects Newton's Laws to be adopted is taken small accelerations. However, the construction of a relativistic MOND theory has been problematic and it is not clear how to reconcile with the measurements of gravitational lensing on the bending of light around galaxies. The main relativistic MOND theory, proposed by Jacob Bekenstein in 2004 is called TeVeS (Tensor-Vector-Scalar) and solves many of the problems of the first attempts. A theory of modified gravity (MOG) proposed by John Moffat, based on non-symmetric gravitational theory (NGT) is also an alternative to dark matter. Another theory is discussed in the cosmic expansion scale (SEC) Johan C. Masreliez. Another approach, proposed by Arrigo Finzi in 1963 and in 1984 Robert Sanders, the gravitational potential is replaced by the following expression: U = \ frac {GM (1-Be ^ {- r / \ rho})} {(1-B) r} where B and \ rho are adjustable parameters. In any event, these approaches have difficulty explaining the difference in the behavior of different galaxies and clusters, however, such mismatches can be easily understood by taking different amount of dark matter. Observations on the rotation of galaxies indicate that about 90% of the mass of a galaxy is not visible and can only be detected by its gravitational effects. Alexander Mayer proposed a hypothesis based on the inconsistencies observed in the timing of GPS and other anomalies. In this hypothesis, increasing redshift observed in distant galaxies and the apparent excess mass of the universe is necessary that the dark matter are simply measurement errors result from an incorrect formulation of the Theory of General Relativity. According to the new formulation of Alexander Mayer, the universe does not require the existence nor energy nor dark matter. The main problem is that these alternative explanations do not explain the anisotropy of the cosmic microwave background, on the other hand, do predict the existence of non-baryonic dark matter. In August 2006, a study of galaxy clusters colliding said demonstrate that, even in a modified gravity hypothesis, most of the mass has to be some form of dark matter by showing that when the regular stuff is "sweep" of a cluster, the gravitational effects of dark matter (thought not interacted, apart from its gravitational effect) remain. A study says that TeVeS can produce the observed effect, but this still requires that most of the mass is in the form of dark matter, possibly in the form of ordinary neutrinos. Also in the non-symmetric gravitational theory states that qualitatively matches the observations without requiring exotic dark matter. Explanations of quantum mechanics === === In another class of theories attempting to reconcile gravity with quantum mechanics and corrections to the conventional gravitational interaction are obtained. In scalar-tensor theories, scalar fields like the Higgs field is coupled to the curvature given through the Riemann tensor and its traces. In many such theories, the scalar field is equal to the inflation field, it is necessary to explain cosmic inflation of the universe after the Big Bang, as the dominant factor of the quintessence or dark energy. Using a View Based on the Renormalization Group, M. Reuter and H. Weyer have shown that Newton's constant and the cosmological constant can be scalar functions in space-time if renormalization scales of space points associated time. In the theory of relativity Laurent Nottale scale, space-time is continuous but not differentiable, leading to the emergence of a gravitational Schrödinger equation. As a result, the effects of quantization scale shown. This makes it possible to correctly predict the large-scale structure of the universe without the need for dark matter hypothesis. == Dark Matter in popular culture == In some video games and other works of fiction appear mentions dark matter. In such cases, it is usually attributed extraordinary physical or magical properties.Tales descripciones a menudo son inconsistentes con las propiedades de la materia oscura propuestas en la física y la cosmología. For example: * La serie de televisión Futurama, en la que la materia oscura es maloliente, sirve de combustible a las naves espaciales y es tan densa que 10 cm³ pesan más de 5000 kilogramos. Los niblonianos expelen materia oscura a manera de deshechos fecales. * En los videojuegos de GBA y Nintendo DS Golden Sun II: La Edad Perdida y Golden Sun: Oscuro Amanecer, la materia oscura aparece como un material que puede ser utilizado para fabricar equipamiento de batalla. * En el videojuego de Wii Super Mario Galaxy, la materia oscura aparece con la propiedad de crear agujeros en suelos, agujeros que "proyectan" la materia oscura, y finalmente, con una propiedad particular de desintegrar a quien la toque (en este caso Mario o Luigi). * En el videojuego MMORPG Maple Story, la materia oscura aparece como un objeto que se consigue por Cash, que con la culminación de ciertas misiones, dan ciertos equipamientos y armas raras y ventajosas. * En la saga Final Fantasy la materia oscura es un ítem usado para crear pociones, armas, otros tipos de artefactos. * En el videojuego para N64 Kirby 64: The Cristal Shards el enemigo es un ser llamado "Dark Matter" (materia oscura en español) que parece estar compuesto de esta misma. * En el videojuego para GC Metroid Prime 2: Echoes la historia transcurre entre un planeta y su semejante creado a partir de energía oscura. Tanto la protagonista como algunos enemigos son capaces de usar materia oscura como armamento. * En el videojuego para SNES Chrono Trigger, Magus tiene la última técnica denominada dark matter (o en español "materia oscura"). * En el juego online Ogame, es una materia escasa que se encuentra fuera de los sistemas solares usada para pagar mejoras que no pueden poseer otros jugadores que no la posean. * En el videojuego para PS2 Final Fantasy XII, la materia oscura es un objeto muy poderoso que puede usarse para atacar a los enemigos. *En la trilogía de libros "La materia oscura" de Philip Pullman, la materia oscura es capaz de transmitir mensajes para comunicarse con los humanos, también es el motivo por el cual el magisterio (en el mundo de Lyra) experimenta con niños, en el mundo de Lyra Lenguadeplata, la materia oscura es conocida como "El polvo". *En el videojuego para PlayStation 3 Little Big Planet, al material "Materia Oscura" se le atribuyen propiedades anti-gravitatorias. *En el videojuego League of Legends, Veigar posee una habilidad llamada "materia oscura". *"Dark Matter" (materia oscura en inglés) figura como el nombre de una de las canciones que conforman Biophilia, proyecto discográfico de la cantante islandesa Björk. References == == External links == == *The DAMA Project *Método de Multimensajeros para la Detección de la Materia Oscura. Proyecto español del Programa Consolider-Ingenio 2010. * "¿De qué está hecho el Universo? (De las partículas elementales a la materia oscura)" - por Carlos Muñoz * Vídeo sobre la Materia Oscura * Visibilidad/Detectabilidad de la Materia Oscura (3 de enero de 2007) * Encontrado: Gran parte del Universo - por Phil Plait * Materia Oscura Caliente - por Martin White * "Gran parte de nuestro Universo está Desaparecida" - Horizon vídeo * "Partículas de Materia Oscura: Pruebas, Candidatas y Restricciones" - por G. Bertone, D. Hooper y J. Silk * "Búsquedas Experimentales de la Materia Oscura" - por Timothy J. Sumner * "La materia oscura salió del frío" - BBC News 5 de febrero de 2005 * "Los astrónomos encuentran la Galaxia sin Estrellas" - BBC News 23 de febrero de 2005 * "Al Principio" - The Economist 13 de enero de 2005 * Las galaxias elípticas también tienen halo de materia oscura * Artículos recientes sobre materia oscura en arXiv.org * Entrevista radiofónica a Carlos Muñoz acerca de qué está hecho el Universo Onda Regional de Murcia * NASA Encuentra Pruebas Directas de Materia Oscura (imágenes), (texto) * Artículo sobre Pruebas Directas de Materia Oscura * Noticias y Vídeos de Mapas 3D Map de andamios de MAteria Oscura de la ESA/Hubble * La materia oscura existe CNN.com * Artículos de introducción a la materia oscura * Parodia del Avance de Noticias sobre la Verdadera Naturaleza de la Materia Oscura * "El equipo encuentra 'pruebas' de la materia oscura" Paul Rincón (2006) BBC online. Primera prueba directa de la materia oscura * La Materia Oscura Existe por Sean M. Carroll. * Problemas de la Masa Desaparecida de la Cosmología por Robert Fritzius * Un gran hallazgo en la caza de la escurridiza materia oscura * Viendo lo invisible (SeedMagazine.com) * ¿Estrellas negras en el principio de los tiempos? * Los secretos de la materia oscura. Parte 1  y parte 2, parte 3, Parte 4, Parte 5, Parte 6, Parte 7, Parte 8, * ¿La Materia Oscura en (Serios) Problemas? Parte I Por Jorge A. Vázquez y Gema Hebrero