Neutrinos (invented by Italian scientist Enrico Fermi, which in Italian means 'little neutron' term) are subatomic particles fermionic type, without charge and spin 1/2. In recent years we know, contrary to what was thought, that these particles have mass, but very small, and it is very difficult to measure. Today (2013), it is believed that the mass of neutrinos is below about 5.5 eV / c2, which means less than a billionth of the mass of a hydrogen atom. Their conclusion is based on analysis of the distribution of galaxies in the universe and is, say these scientists, the most accurate measurement yet of the mass of the neutrino. In addition, their interaction with other particles is minimal, so pass through ordinary matter almost without disturbing. The neutrino mass has important implications for the standard model of particle physics, it would imply the possibility of transformations between the three types of neutrinos in a phenomenon known as neutrino oscillation. In any case, neutrinos are not affected by strong electromagnetic or nuclear forces, but the weak nuclear force and gravity. History == == The existence of the neutrino was proposed in 1930 by physicist Wolfgang Pauli to compensate for the apparent loss of energy and momentum in the β decay of the neutron according to the following equation: : \ mathrm {n} \ rightarrow \ mathrm {p} ^ \ mathrm {e} ^ - \ bar {\ nu} _e \, Wolfgang Pauli interpreted both the mass and energy would be conserved if a hypothetical particle called the "neutrino" participate in the disintegration incorporating the amounts lost. Unfortunately, this hypothetical particle was estimated to be without mass, no charge, no strong interaction, which can not be detected with the media at the time. This was the result of a very small cross section (\ sigma _ {\ mu} \ sim 10 ^ {- 44} \ text {cm} ^ 2). For 25 years, the idea of ​​the existence of this particle was only established theoretically. In fact, there is very little chance that a neutrino interacts with matter since, as calculated by quantum physics, a block of lead of a length of a light (9.46 trillion kilometers) year would be needed to stop the half of the neutrinos that pass through. In 1956 Frederick Reines and Clyde Cowan demonstrated their existence experimentally. They did bombarding pure water with a beam of 1018 neutrons per second. They observed the subsequent emission of photons, thus being given their existence. In this test, called the neutrino experiment. In 1962 Leon Max Lederman, Melvin Schwartz and Jack Steinberger showed that there was more than one type of neutrino to first detect the muon neutrino. In 2000 it was announced by the DONUT collaboration at Fermilab discovery of the tau neutrino. Its existence had been predicted, since the results of the Z boson decay measured by LEP at CERN were consistent with the existence of 3 neutrinos. In September 2011, the OPERA collaboration announced that analysis of the measures for the speed of neutrinos superluminal threw in their experiment values. In particular, the speed of some kind of neutrino could be larger than 0.002% of light, which appears to contradict the theory of relativity. However, subsequent to the announcement (which had a spectacular international diffusion) days, through the British Institute of Physics became apparent some disagreements between members of the international team on the need for further testing, and to publish the results in journals with peer review, before giving more publicity to these first results. More recently, on 10 November 2011, the scientific director of CERN, Sergio Bertolucci, told reporters that "the experiment is being repeated by us and by other scientists in the United States, Japan and Italy," and that "the most likely it is shown that there was a mistake in the initial experiment and that the limit is still the speed of light. "A new experiment at CERN (European Organization for Nuclear Research) has yielded the same result as the study last September. However Fernando Ferroni, president of the INFN, said: "The positive outcome of the experiment makes us more confident in the result, but will have to wait to see the results of other similar experiments in other parts of the world before the last word." It has been said from the same body when measuring the distance traveled by the neutrinos was a failure in the positioning system (GPS), having a disconnected cable, so far the superluminal velocity has been discarded. Classes == == There are three types of neutrinos associated with each of the leptonic families (or flavors): electron neutrino (\ nu_e), muon neutrino (\ nu_ \ mu) and tau neutrino (\ nu_ \ tau) plus their antiparticles. Neutrinos can pass from one family to another (ie, change of taste) in a process known as neutrino oscillation. The oscillation between the different families occurs randomly, and the probability of change appears to be higher in a medium than in vacuum. Given the unpredictability of the process, the proportions of each of the flavors tend to be divided equally (1/3 of the total for each type of neutrino) as successive oscillations occur. It was this fact that allowed to consider first neutrino oscillation as observing neutrinos from the Sun (which should be mainly electronic) found that only one-third came from those expected. Two thirds had ranged missing the other two flavors and therefore were not detected. This is called "solar neutrino problem". The oscillation of neutrinos directly implies that they must have a non-zero mass, since the passage from one flavor to another can only occur in massive particles. Astrophysical implications == == mass In the standard model the neutrino was initially considered as a massless particle. In fact, in many ways can be considered the zero mass as this is, at least ten thousand times less than the electron. This implies that the neutrinos travel at speeds approaching that of light. Therefore, in cosmological terms the neutrino is considered hot stuff, or relativistic matter. In contrast the cold matter would nonrelativistic matter. In 1998, during the conference 0-neutrino mass, the first studies showing that these particles have a negligible mass is presented. Before this work had been considered that the hypothetical neutrino mass could have an important contribution within the dark matter of the Universe. However, it turned out that the neutrino mass was inadequate, too small to be even taken into account the huge amount of dark matter that are estimated to be in the universe. On the other hand, the cosmological evolution models did not fit the observations if warm dark matter was introduced. In that case the structures formed from high to low level. While the comments seemed to indicate that clusters of gas first, then stars, then proto galaxies, then clusters, clusters of clusters, etc. were formed The observations therefore add up to a model of cold dark matter. For these two reasons the idea that the neutrino contribute prominently to the total mass of the universe was discarded. Sources == == The Sun === === The Sun is the most important source of neutrinos through beta decay processes of the reactions that occur in the nucleus. Since neutrinos do not readily interact with matter, beyond the solar core also freely across the Earth. Apart from the nuclear reactions, other processes generating neutrinos, which are called thermal neutrinos because, unlike nuclear neutrinos, part of the energy emitted by such reactions for converting absorbed neutrino. Thus, a portion of the energy produced by the stars is lost and does not contribute to the pressure, the reason being that said neutrinos are energy drains. His contribution to the energy emitted in the early stages (main sequence, helium burning) is not significant, but in the final collapse of the most massive stars, when its center is dying very high densities, many neutrinos are produced in a medium it is no longer transparent to them, so their effects must be taken into account. According solar models, should receive triple neutrinos that absence which is known as the problem of solar neutrinos are detected. For a time he tried to justify this deficit reviewing solar models. The sun burns hydrogen mainly through two chains of reactions, the PPI and PPII. The first emits a neutrino and the second two. The hypotheses raised were that perhaps the PPII had less than the calculated occurrence due to a lack of helium in the core favored by some mechanism (braking the rotation viscosity) to mix the helium produced in mantle which would reduce the rate of PPII. Currently the problem is on track to be resolved when considering the theory of neutrino oscillation. Artificial sources === === The main sources of artificial neutrinos are nuclear power plants, which can generate about 5 · 1020 anti-neutrinos per second, and to a lesser extent, particle accelerators. Astrophysical phenomena === === In type II supernova neutrinos are causing the expulsion of most of the mass of the star to the interstellar medium. The energy released in the form of neutrinos is huge and only a small portion is transformed into light and kinetic energy. When did the SN 1987A detectors picked weak neutrino flux from the distant explosion. Cosmic background radiation === === It is believed that, like the microwave background radiation from the Big Bang, there is a background of low-energy neutrinos in our Universe. In the 1980s it was proposed that these may be the explanation of the dark matter that is thought to exist in the universe. Neutrinos have a significant advantage over most dark matter candidates: We know there. However, they also have serious problems. Particle experiments, it is known that neutrinos are very light. This means that they move at speeds approaching that of light. Thus, dark matter made ​​of neutrinos is termed "hot dark matter". The problem is that, being in rapid motion, the neutrinos would tend to spread evenly in the universe before cosmological expansion's cool enough to focus on clusters. This would cause the part of dark matter made ​​of neutrinos to expand, being unable to form large galactic structures that we see. Moreover, these same galaxies and groups of galaxies appear to be surrounded by dark matter that is not fast enough to escape these galaxies. Presumably, this material provided the gravitational center for the formation of these galaxies. This implies that neutrinos constitute only a small portion of the total amount of dark matter. Of cosmological arguments, relic neutrinos (low energy background) are estimated to have density of 56 per cubic centimeter, and having temperature 1.9 K (1.7 × 10-4 eV), that is, if they have no mass . Otherwise, they would be much cooler if its mass exceeds 0001 eV. Although their density is quite high, due to the extremely low energy neutrino cross under sections 1 eV, the bottom of low energy neutrinos has not yet been observed in the laboratory. In contrast, solar neutrinos boron-8, which are transmitted with a higher power, have been definitively identified, despite having a lower than the neutrino relic, about six orders of magnitude spatial density. === Earth and atmosphere === The reactions of beta decay of radioactive isotopes terrestrial provide a small source of neutrinos, which are produced as a result of natural background radiation. In particular, the decay chains of 238,92U and 232,90Th and 40,19K include beta decay emitting anti-neutrinos. These geoneutrinos called can provide valuable information about the interior of the Earth. A first indication of geoneutrinos was found by the KamLAND experiment in 2005 KamLAND main background in measuring geoneutrino are anti-neutrinos from reactors. Several future experiments aim to improve geoneutrino measurement and these will necessarily have to be away from the reactors. Detectors == == By knowing exactly the nuclear reactions that occur in the Sun was estimated that a significant flux of solar neutrinos had to pass through the Earth every second. This flow is enormous but the neutrinos hardly interact with ordinary matter. Even the conditions inside the Sun are "transparent" to them. In fact, a human being is crossed by billions of these tiny particles per second without him noticing. So it was difficult to conceive of a system that could detect. Detectors based === === radioactive processes However, in 1967 Raymond Davis managed to find a detection system. He noted that chlorine-37 was able to absorb a neutrino to become argon-37 as shown in the following equation: : {} ^ {37} \ mathrm {Cl} \ nu_e \ rightarrow {} ^ {37} \ mathrm {Ar} \ mathrm {e} ^ - \, Naturally, this was not the only reaction between neutrinos and ordinary matter. What was so special chlorine-37 is to meet certain requirements to be able to use in a future detector. * A) The cross section of the chloro-37 interaction with neutrinos is quite large implying a greater probability that the reaction proceeds * B) Argon-37 is radioactive and it is possible to detect their presence by their emissions * C) Chlorine-37, but not the most abundant isotope of chlorine, it is very easy to obtain. Typically the chloro-37 appears mixed with other isotopes. Particularly with chlorine-35, the most abundant. Furthermore, it can be mixed with other atoms or molecules, always knowing their proportion. To avoid false readings due to argon-37 already present in the mixture, the first step was to make a product cleaned. This done, they should leave the mixture of chlorine-37 for a few months until it reached a steady state. This is when the amount of argon that disintegrates equals the amount formed. The equilibrium point is determined by the half-life. To protect the detector from the background noise produced by cosmic radiation was buried chlorinated Tank1 of a gold mine in South Dakota too deep mixing. However, the first observations gave only upper bounds, yet compatible with zero2. The results were lower than expected and mingled with the noise. After repeated increases in the sensitivity of the instruments and the purity of the mixture of chlorine-37 was achieved at last we came estimate about a third of esperado3 flow. These results were not taken seriously at first, so they continued experimenting with blends better but more expensive based on gallium or boron. : 1The tank containing 380,000 liters of perchlorethylene, a liquid often used in dry cleaning. : 2The initial sensitivity of the detector was predicted to detect the expected flux of solar neutrinos. But being it below the accuracy of the system initially only an upper bound was obtained. : 3The expected average captured a neutrino and a half each day. But the result was only half a day neutrino. === Detectors based on Cherenkov effect === Doubts about the methods used by Davis encouraged the search for alternatives to the detection of such elusive particles. So a new line of detectors that are based on the collision of neutrinos with electrons contained in an aqueous medium emerged. : \ nu_e e ^ - \ gt e ^ - \ nu_e \, These detectors are based on the fact that the neutrino upon impact with an electron transmits part of the time conferring to it a speed sometimes higher than that of light in the same aqueous medium. It is then that light emission characteristic, known as Cherenkov radiation, which is detected by the photomultiplier lining the vessel walls occurs. Like what you see is a transfer of momentum we can infer about the mass of them and the direction from which they came while the previous single detection system could calculate the neutrino flux. Instead of conventional water heavy water is used because it is more likely to capture neutrinos. This is the most famous case of neutrino detector. The Super-Kamiokande, which gets its name from the Japanese Kamioka mine. The first thing you did with this huge vessel, 40 meters in diameter and 40 in height equipped with about 11,000 photomultiplier tubes, was to detect neutrinos from supernova 1987A. Then the flux of solar neutrinos measured results corroborating Davis detector. His greatest success has been the recent measurement of the neutrino mass. It was with the supernova experiment with the laboratory became more famous to be able to determine the mass of the neutrino was not void reaching its limit value from the measurement of the delay in the arrival of the neutrinos from the explosion. If these had I lacked mass they had come together to photons (light from the supernova). See also == == * Antineutrino * Neutrino mail Neutrino * tau * Neutrino muon * Experiment neutrino * List of particles References == == Bibliography == == * Neutrino properties. Extracted from, review the Particle Data Group in 2010. External links == ==