Experiment optical gravitational lens, or OGLE, for its acronym in English (Optical Gravitational Lensing Experiment) is a Polish astronomical project initiated at the University of Warsaw, which is mainly dedicated to the discovery of dark matter, using the technique of gravitational microlensing . Since its inception in 1992 it has discovered several extrasolar planets, as an added benefit. The project was initiated by Professor Andrzej Udalski, who is co-discoverer of OGLE-2005-BLG-390Lb. The main objectives of the project are the Magellanic Clouds and the Galactic bulge, given the large number of stars that can be used for a gravitational microlensing during a stellar astronomical transit. Most of the observations were taken from the Las Campanas Observatory in Chile. Among the institutions collaborating on the project can be named Princeton University and the Carnegie Institution for Science. The project has been divided into three phases: * OGLE-I: Pilot project * OGLE-II: This stage is especially built a 1.3 m telescope in Chile at Las Campanas Observatory. * OGLE-III: This stage was dedicated to finding astronomical planetary transits. The observed fields were our galactic bulge and the constellation Carina. Planets discovered == == So far it has been discovered eleven planets. Five of them by the method of transits six through gravitational microlensing. For events found using the microlensing method, after the acronym OGLE included the year of discovery, indicates that BLG were detected in the galactic bulb (galactic buldge), then the ordinal number of the event in that year indicated. Events discovered by the transit method have the initials TR (Transit), and the ordinal number of transit event. The letter in both cases indicates the order of the planet in your system (if b is closer to its star, c for the second, etc.). See also == == * Bohdan Paczynski * SuperWASP * XO Project References == == * Official website of the OGLE project in Poland (Mirror of the official website, in Princeton, United States) (accessed May 4, 2008)