In astrophysics, WIMP (stands for weakly interacting massive particles, in Spanish "weakly interacting massive particles") are hypothetical that could explain the problem of particulate matter particles oscura.Estas to interact due to the weak nuclear force and gravity and possibly through other no stronger than the weak force interactions. You can not see straight, and that do not interact and do not emit electromagnetic radiation and not react strongly with the nucleus of the atom because they do not interact with the nuclear force fuerte.Esta alleged combination of features makes the WIMPs present very similar properties to neutrinos, with the difference that the WIMP should be much more massive, and therefore slower. == Features == WIMPs Although the existence of WIMPs in nature is currently a mere hypothesis, it could solve a lot of astrophysical and cosmological problems related to dark matter. The main features of a WIMP are: * interact only with the weak nuclear force and gravity, and perhaps with some really high no larger than the weak nuclear force * Masa forces compared with the particles of the standard model (indeed. , WIMPs with a mass less than 1 GeV fall under the designation of Light Dark Matter). Due to the neutral nature of these particles, electromagnetic observations are not able to detect them. Because of its enormous mass, should move very slowly, and therefore be very cold, and that is why we should stay focused. Simulations have been performed universe full of cold dark matter that give very similar to those observed galactic distributions. The leading candidates to compose the "cold dark matter" are apart of WIMPs, the MACHOs (English wimp means something like "puny, effeminate" is why we chose the name of MACHOs, in contrast.) Unlike MACHOs with the standard model of particle physics harbors no particle having the properties of WIMPs. Particles of this model yes interacting with normal matter, like neutrinos, are very light, so they are fast and are very hot. Hot dark matter is inconsistent with cosmological models, for then the universe should be much more homogeneous than we observe. Many of the WIMP scenarios are explained by supersymmetry, as might be the neutralino, although most of these particles have not been able to observe yet. == == The experimental detection WIMPs are extremely difficult to detect because they interact only through the weak nuclear gravitational forces. However, some experiments have been performed in order to detect these hypothetical particles, either directly or indirectly. No longer serving us electromagnetism to detect these particles, the only way to do this is by detecting the impact of one on the nucleus of an atom, but as the cross section of these impacts is very small, the probability of occurrence of such impact is highly unlikely. However, if the dark matter is made of WIMPs, the universe should be filled with these particles, in fact, the number of which should be as high as about 1013 of these particles would pass through per second per kilogram of your body. Although the chance for impact is so tiny, as there should be so many of them, yes that one can achieve some núcleo.Por impact with it, a way to detect these hypothetical impacts would observe the Sun, because due to the number of atoms which houses, is more likely to impinge upon a helium nucleus or a proton. This impact would cause a loss of energy in the WIMP, which would immediately be absorbed by the Sun, causing the WIMPs each other annihilate, resulting in the expulsion of a variety of particles, among which could be found neutrinos highly energetic. These neutrinos then reach Earth, which could be detected by many neutrino observatories such as Super-Kamiokande in Japan. They are doing similar experiments to detect neutrinos from WIMP annihilations caused by both on Earth and in the center of the galaxia.Cabe note that, although most of these models indicate that should be captured in the heavenly bodies a lot of these WIMPs experiments to succeed, it may be that the models are wrong, or that only explain part of the phenomenon of dark matter. Moreover, apart from the experiments that seek indirectly explain the existence of cold dark matter, to solidify the theory also direct evidence of the existence of WIMPs.Aunque most WIMPs would cross the Sun or the Earth without interacting with them need , is believed that a sufficiently large detector could interact at least a few times each year. The way to detect WIMPs is very similar to how to detect neutrinos.thumb | right | 350px |. Facts May 2004 The green area represents the result of the DAMA experiment, compared with the limits of precision of the CDMS and EDELWEISS experiments. the CDMS (Cryogenic Dark Matter Search), located in the Soudan (Minnesota, USA) mine uses a technique based on the storage of germanium and silicon crystals at a very cold temperature. The crystals, which are similar to a hockey puck size are cooled to the temperature of 50 millikelvin (0.05 K). This temperature as close to absolute zero causes the atoms of the crystal vibrate very slowly, so that if any WIMP slammed into glass atom, a sound wave would occur, as the atom that is impacted on its vibration displaces atoms around, the task of a layer of metal (aluminum and tungsten) is responsible. This tungsten is at a critical temperature, so that exerts superconductor, and vibrations generated in the crystal layer metal heated, which is detected through the change in resistance detected mismo.Otro impact mode WIMP of atoms is by use of a scintillator material, in this way, the atom which receives light pulses generated by the impact. Good examples of this are the experiment DEAP (Dark Matter Experiment using Argon Pulse-shape discrimination), you plan to store a large amount of liquid argon, or the DAMA / NaI experiment, which ran between 1996 and 2002 in the Laboratori Nazionali Grand Sasso, Italy. In this experiment sodium iodide crystals, about 10 kg each surrounded by photomultiplier tubes were used. The technique used was based on the detection of photons, discarding those that corresponded to other causes. The experiment sought, apart from proving the existence of WIMPs and identifying some of its features, check if the season influenced the frequency of the impacts, as this is a feature that has been predicted. The experiment, in fact, detected impacts with atoms in the crystal that are compatible with the characteristics of WIMPs, and verified a seasonal variation of the detection events. However, among the only evidence of the existence of WIMPs provided by the experiment is that seasonal variation, and many other experiments have not confirmed this variation, most scientists remain skeptical about the existence of WIMPs . was expected that if the photons detected by the DAMA experiment were truly caused by WIMPs, the CDMS and EDELWEISS experiments observe a large number of scattered nuclei from WIMPs. == See also == * MACHOs * dark Matter * SIMP == references ==== external links == * CDMS * COUPP * CRESST * LADY * EDELWEISS * HDMS * WARP * XENON * ZEPLINja: WIMP