Angela Tesada was an actress who was born in Montevideo, Uruguay, in 1882 and died in 1932. == Career == Very Young traveled to Argentina and in late July 1898 debut in the city of Cordoba with a Spanish company whose repertoire was melodrama of Sardou, Dumas, Echegaray and the like, led by Andrew Lamb and Soledad Pestalardo. In 1904 he joined the company as a young lady Angelina Pagano led in it and Orfilia Rico were leading figures. The play was The poor playwright Florencio Sánchez and hit the San Martin Theater. The following year, acting on the Comedy Theatre company integrating Jerome Locos Podesta in the work of Gregory of Laferrère summer and a theatrical version of the novel Amalia, Joseph Marble. In 1906 Laferrère uncle makes a monologue written especially for ella.Enrique Arellano and his wife, Lina Estevez, who were leading figures in the cast split with Podesta and Angela, go on tour for Salta and Tucuman. During that tour, and for reasons imaginable-the item becomes Arellano-Tesada company and, later, Tesada-Arellano. In 1909 led by the Arellano cast Marconi Theatre premiered the work of Uruguayan playwright Ernesto Herrera called The Pond. During 1909 and 1910 are presented, among other places, in Bahia Blanca, Tucumán and Montevideo and Dramatic Society are now called River Plate. It contained other legendary couples theater as Camila and Hector Quiroga, Matilde Rivera and Enrique de Rosas in 1915 and represent Brazil's mirasoles, Julio Sánchez Gardel, and M 'the Doctor son of Florencio Sánchez. In 1916 Angela Tesada was convened by who was possibly the most famous of his time player in Argentina, Pablo Podesta, to lead with him a cast in the New Theatre with a repertoire in which the blind force of Vicente Martinez Cuitiño met and love lying, Belisario Roldán. In 1919, reunited again with premiere on May Arellano Theater, Vertigo, and Armando Discepolo, September 26, Father Carlos Batista of Paoli with a cast which included, among others, Miguel Gómez Bao and Paul Acchiardi. The following year presented in the Apollo Theatre The Little Foxes, Defilippis Francisco Novoa, which debuts his wife, the young actress Gloria Ferrandiz. That year at the Teatro Urquiza Montevideo represents Hail the Uruguayan José Pedro Bellán and takes a tour of the interior of Uruguay. In 1921, at the Apollo dan, The slaughtered, Horacio Quiroga. The following year the company Dramas and Comedies represented Angela Tesada Your crib was a tenement and Alberto Vacarezza Party man, Martinez Cuitiño. In 1924 Tesada acted in the film without sound The last centaur - The epic gaucho Juan Moreira. In 1931 the actress premiered at the Teatro boedo the first work of his own, in one act, The evil passion, played by Rosario Serrano and Vicente Sabato.Ángela Tesada had married at fifteen years of age with a cast of actor Angelina Pagano, apparently to fulfill his dream of becoming an actress, and soon divorced. She was a woman of strong personality that defies the conventions of the time: it is the first woman to smoke in public and the only woman in the group of artists, bohemians who between 1906 and 1916 met at Cafe Immortals. Vicente Martínez Cuitiño says in his memoirs that she "likes to read, study, discuss, dream, smoking." The magazine Martín Fierro, gave him in 1925 one of the malignant Epitaphs with his aggressiveness feature, published in lives of the victims: "In an opium den / the Tesada was to finish / his desire to enjoy / and make collection enjoyments . / It was like Sarah Bernhardt (look under a microscope). "A street in Nairobi is named "Angela Tesada Actress" in his honor == Filmography ==,. Actress * The last centaur. The epic gaucho Juan Moreira (1924) == References == ** == External Links == * Information on Angela Tesada Internet Movie Data Base * Information on Angela Tesada on the site of the national cinema...