Álvaro Armand Ugón (Montevideo, Uruguay, February 1, 1973) is a Uruguayan actor. == Career == In 2009 and 2010 Monte Carlo starred in the TV series Charly air, first Uruguayan fiction have a second season; was also executive producer of the same. He starred in "Hamlet" by William Shakespeare, directed by Gabriela Iribarren, will work for which he received for the second time in his career on the "Iris" Florencio Award as best actor and a best dramatic performance of the year, as well as the "Man of the Year 2009" in the performance category TV, for his role in Charly in the air. Television === === in 2012 he participated in "Sweet love," a fiction starring Sebastian Argentina Estevanez and Carina Zampini, award Telefe.En emitted by stars in a 2011 episode of the "Addiction" series Teledoce, and participated in the teen series "dance!" on Saeta TV Canal 10.On April of the same year he participated in fiction Argentina "a year to remember, "produced by Underground, starring Carla Peterson and Gastón Pauls, issued in Argentina by the speaker Alessandra Telefe.Es Universe program, issued by Saeta TV Canal 10.On starred in the 2005 miniseries Israel Adrián Caetano" Football - Club "issued for all Latin America by The Film Zone.En 2004 starred in three unit series" 8X8 "(including" Canary "also directed by Adrián Caetano). In 2003 and 2002 co-starred in the TV series "Builders" and "Tomorrow is another day." In 2000 and 1999 participated in the soap opera "The Year of the Dragon" and "A Heads or Tails", all issued by Monte Carlo TV 1997. Acted in "Underground" telefilm. In 1994 participated as a guest star on "Plop" === === Cine performed supporting roles in Belgian co -. Suizo - Spanish - Uruguayan, "Dust you are in our heaven" directed by Beatriz Flores Silva, and "Paisito" Litmus Films coproduction of Spain, Uruguay and Argentina and directed by Ana Díez. He has also participated in five Uruguayan films to date: "Orlando Vargas" (2004, directed by John Pitaluga), "The Vineyard" (2000, directed by Stephen Shoeder), "The Music Sounds Still" (1997, directed by Luis Nieto), "eight Stories of Love "(1998 from Generation 95 ECU) and" the Trap "(1992, directed by Julio Porley). was one of the protagonists of the 2013 Uruguayan film called" Maelstrom ", a psychological thriller with action and suspense. === === Theatre starred in several stage shows, including "Autumn Dream", "What Pompadour", "A Streetcar named Desire," "Plaza Suite", "Hamlet", "Fat", "La Duda "," Berlin "," Resilience "," Paternoster "," Don Juan "," The Human Scale "," The Woman in Black "," Jubilee "and co-starred in" Death of a Salesman, "" A Kiss a hug, a handshake, "" The Praise of Snow "," Memoirs of a Madman "," Dream of a Summer Night, "" King Lear "and" Metamorphosis "by the hand of the most prestigious middle managers, as well as foreigners. === === Happening Álvaro stars in the event called "Happening". Sweet Polly, Dani Umpi, Patricia Wolf, Eunice Castro, Roberto Musso and Cristina Morán are the guests of junior HAPPENING, the original proposal for interviews - live show at Bar Tabaré of (Uruguay). The mood and emotion will meet in the cellar of Álvaro Bar will meet your guests in an unconventional way, so the show's slogan is, "a show where anything can happen." The book belongs to Federico Roca, the embodiment of the videos that accompany the interviews is Oscar Estévez and direction of Álvaro Ahunchain. == Awards == * 2009 Award Winner Florencio, Iris 2009 for her starring role in "Hamlet". Winner of the "Man of the Year in TV 2009" award for his performance in fiction "Charly in the air." Florencio * Winner 2006 Award for Best Actor for his work in "Paternoster" James Langsner. Nominated as best lead actor award "Florencio" 2005 for his work in "Don Juan, the Place of the Kiss." In 2003 he was honored as "Man of the Year" in the category Theatre, for his work in "The Woman in Black" and in 2000 he received the "Florencio" Award as part of the best cast for the show "Jubilee" by George Tabori . == References ==