right | 250px | thumb | Angel Letiel Dei. Copy preserved in a private collection in Toledo (Spain). Arcabucero is known as the representation of an angel with musket instead of the traditional sword angel. This style was developed during the colony in the colonial painting Sur.En Peru America, the subject of angels stands as one of the most characteristic of the Cuzco School of Painting. Thus, we find that the tables represent pictorial develop this theme a far more detailed way than in the case of Europe, also show a richly expressive and generally excellent performance. == Background == A special type of these angels , which enjoyed a special broadcast in the seventeenth century in the area of Cuzco (home center and only city where it occurred in large quantities that were distributed in the Andean region and in Europe) - Viceroyalty of Peru, is the "Angel arcabucero ", ie an angel dressed in clothes inspired by the soldiers of the time, and armed with a musket. It is possible that the good reception that these works were among the Indians of the time is due in part to the ease with which they could identify these winged beings with one of their ancient gods and heroes. However, for the choice of the authors had different angels good account of Christian writings of the time about the hierarchy of angels and archangels fact often painted, both recognized by the Church officers (Rafael, Michael, Gabriel), as those coming from the tradition (Uriel, Letiel, etc..). in the former territory of Pacajes Indians, particularly in the church Calamarca (about 60 km from La Paz, Bolivia), is shows one of the most comprehensive series of angels that remain. It was a set of thirty-six painted in the second half of the seventeenth century paintings, as listed in an inventory of the church, dating from 1728. Currently we can admire only one of them in this temple, which is now exposed after amazing renovation in 1993, including ten magnificent angels == arcabuceros existing Tables == left |. 150px | thumb | the archangel Uriel, anonymous, XVIII.Al century begin the eighteenth century, the painting demand from all corners of the Viceroyalty grew rapidly. Hundreds of Cuzco paintings, in a large percentage, angels arcabuceros constantly traveling to Lima, the Peru, Chile and northern Argentina. This large, mostly indigenous art workshops, attending large orders for different sets of tables were installed. Ramón Mujica Pinilla noted in his apocryphal Angels Colonial America (1992), the link between angels arcabuceros characteristic of the Cuzco school, and certain winged warriors pantheon prehispánico.Se can find pictures of angels arcabuceros especially in the Peru, Bolivia, northern Argentina (there is a collection of ten beautiful angels in the Church of San Francisco de Padua 1691, in the picturesque village of Uquía, nestled in the heart of the Quebrada de Humahuaca), and in museums españoles.En the image of the top can see a copy of one of the angels arcabuceros Calamarca, namely it is "Letiel Dei 'as written contained in the canvas, ie Letiel archangel. The figure is quite schematic in its composition, which is clearly defined by the synthesizer drawing shapes: triangle and highlights the way the jacket, with the repetition of vertical and oblique lines marked by the legs, all balanced by the curves of the puffed sleeves, hat, ribbons hovering behind the legs and feathers. The color of the clothing, feathers, wings and hat are complimented with quality brocade, lace and glitter for effect of lavishness. Despite the obvious flat pictorial treatment, characteristics of this artistic school that corresponds Master Calamarca (which could be, according to experts, José López de los Rios), achieved a total balance by soft flesh tones glazes. The firearm Letiel posing with his right hand a musket, and holding in his left hand is but the wick to fire the weapon. In the head wearing a slouch hat with three feathers; neck, tie or flange. The slashed sleeves are part of the set of chamberga coat, in the center reveals the blue vest. Above the knee breeches or trousers appreciate, and legs stockings Mancha green. The shoes with bows complete the outfit, and can even distinguish a secluded dark red mantle which can be seen on one side, and a sword. == External Links == * José de Mesa and Teresa Gisbert Angels and archangels (The angels Calamarca, Series of angels in the audience of Charcas, the angels and the indigenous world).