Amalia Nieto (Montevideo, August 3, 1907 - February 7, 2003) was a painter, engraver and sculptor longtime Uruguay, a member of the Association of Constructive Art led by Joaquín Torres García and creator of a style that emphasizes Uruguayan art in the twentieth century. == Biography == Daughter of Dr. Manuel Benito Nieto, Uruguayan medical pioneer in cardiac surgery, and Angela Perichón, was the second of three hermanos.En 1925 entered the Academy of Fine Arts and studied Domingo Bazzurro painting. In 1929 he traveled to Paris, where he remained for three years studying in the Grande Chaumiere with Othon Friesz and André Lhote Academy. He also attended a course in art history at the Sorbonne. In 1923 Pedro Figari visited in his Paris studio and taught him some of his paintings. On his return to his first exhibition Uruguay individual.En 1934 has entered the Taller Torres García and the following year he joined the formation of the Association of Art Constructivo.Frecuentaba musical sessions in the fifth philosopher Carlos Vaz Ferreira and crowded gatherings in house and Alfredo Caceres where Esther met musician and writer Felisberto Hernández whom he married in 1937. was born the following year his daughter Ana María. The correspondence with Felisberto during his concert tours, integrates over 100 letters populated Amalia drawings and watercolors, sketches for poster recital of Stravinsky Petrushka. The relationship with Felisberto not work and they divorced in 1943. Upon separation, Amalia cut drawings charts and framed. They deserved a retrospective exhibition in 1943 2008.En received a scholarship and traveled to Chile for a summer course at the University by Jorge Romero Brest, who began an enduring amistad.En 1955 he returned to Paris, accompanied by her daughter. He studied etching with Johnny Friedlaender and attended courses mosaic Severini.En 1973 Gino started teaching in the Fine Arts Montevideo.Expuso regularly Friends of Art and the Ateneo de Montevideo, participated in National Meetings and integrated the Uruguayan shipment to São Paulo Biennial twice. He also illustrated books of poetry of Joan of Ibarbourou, Paul Valéry and Ernesto Pinto. He wrote the play Children Acrobino and made the set for his debut in the theater The Shed in 1972 directed by Laura Escalante.Su work also achieved international recognition, was invited to exhibit in Buenos Aires, Paris, Germany and the United States. in 2001 took place at the Museum of Contemporary Art in a major retrospective Montevideo. The artist was 94 years old and still going. == == Work Performed numerous drawings, watercolors, oil and acrylic paintings, sculptures and prints. Still lifes, landscapes and Parisian streets informalistas, constructive and abstractions compositions realize consistency in the visual language of the artist in all media and topics. The geometric synthesis present in his paintings, as well as the series called mental stand still lifes personal mark on the art of the twentieth century Uruguayan, a free constructivism introduces a conceptual and sensitive, near the metaphysical paintings of Giorgio Morandi dimension. In the exhibition catalog Amalia Nieto. Retrospective 1925-1995, held at the National Museum of Visual Arts in 1995, Angel said she Kalenberg with Petrona Viera, consummated "the most substantial contribution to the history of Uruguayan plastic arts contribution." == Awards == The prizes you received are:... * Mention in the III Biennial of Sao Paulo (1957) * Grand Prize for Painting at the XXXI National Exhibition (1967) * Great Sculpture Prize at the XXXIII National Exhibition (1969) * Figari Award Bank Central del Uruguay in recognition of his career (1995) == References ==== external links == * Amalia Nieto at the National Museum of Visual Arts exhibition catalog * Amalia Nieto.. letters to Felisberto Jorge Mara Gallery, Buenos Aires (2008)....