Antonio Domingo Podesta was a film and theater was born in Montevideo, Uruguay, on August 4, 1868 and had a long tenure in Argentina and died on November 17, 1945. In 1889 he married Rosita Robba, known as Rosita La Plata, the most important ecuyere of his day, which left him to join Frank Brown. == career == was the seventh son of Peter and Maria Teresa Podesta Torterolo. He belonged to a family of actors, was the brother of Jerome, Paul and Joseph Podesta. From childhood he practiced acrobatics, he was a pianist and composed several tangos. He debuted in a circus in 1873, before the age of 5, where his older brothers already working Jerome and Pepe, as tightrope-climbed on the shoulders of the greatest. In 1876, at age 8, performed at the Circus Arena, which had been created by his brothers, where fricassee danced the tarantella and cancán.A age 12 he was a trapeze artist and comic partner emcee. In 1884 appeared in Buenos Aires in the representation of pantomime Juan Moreira and Eduardo Gutiérrez in 1886 it does in the spoken version, although on paper secundario.Con Rosita Robba traveled to the United States in 1889 and worked in the circus Barnum, one of the largest in the world-as ringmaster Antonio and Rosita as ecuyere Europa.En-traveled to 1893 and returned to Argentina and rejoined the company Podesta, the following year the play premiered Fausto criollo, which musicalizó Antonio. While the transition between the circus and the theater was still developing the Podesta premiered Calandria, a work of Martiniano Leguizamón, presented in a theater not in a circus-riding requirement by the author; he had written the play thinking of the Podesta to represent, including Antonio who was assigned the role of Captain Saldaña, a character which was to be riding the 1898 escenario.En Antonio Podesta put music to Moreira's work in opera, made in 1900 the words and music of the opera by Mary, which included the eponymous pericón great importance back to the point that the work is known as Pericón by Mary and greatly contributed to the spread of the Podesta 1901 danza.En separate Antonio and Pepe gets; debuted with the new integration with the minstrel, an operetta whose music they wrote and then followed with the representation of other groups whose music also composed works. The company was led by Ezequiel Antonio Soria and was praised by critics for his work in The Stone Martin scandal Coronado.En 1908 was the last season they did at the Apollo Theater. In 1911 they meet again Pepe and Pablo Podesta, and Antonio goes with them. The March 30, 1918 Pepe and Antonio premiered at the Teatro Politeama the work the farm of Don Lorenzo de [[Martín Coronado then remained in his repertoire, and in 1930 presented the work in the Performing Footprints Pampa.Antonio Podesta, who was married to actress Lea Conti, with whom he has his only daughter, died on November 17, 1945 == Filmography ==,. Actor * the cantor de Buenos Aires (1940) * Juan Moreira (1936) * Tararira (bohemian today) (1936) * Radio Idols (1934) * the Blessed Editor musical (1909) * Down the mask (1904) == external Links == * Information on Antonio Podesta Internet Movie Data Base * Information on Antonio Podesta at the site of national cinema...