Baroque architecture in Latin America occurs in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, when the conquest and domination of India reaches its peak. New cities are created and existing ones rebuilt. == == The basic aesthetic style that is created is the baroque, which shows the power of Spain. But in America the baroque find your own style, through the merger of the new style with the native substrate and Moorish tradition. Three are the drivers of the Baroque in America: the Crown, the bourgeoisie and the Jesuits as representatives of the Church. The architecture was also a vehicle for evangelization. The first convents and churches first American Renaissance style, will look like a fortress, because of the nature of the Indian border, as the convent Acolman Teotihuacan in the valley, or the convent Actopan in Hidalgo, Mexico. But in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries when the best examples of American architecture were built, mainly thanks to the cathedrals. == Building == In the cathedral of Mexico, working Claudio Arciniega and Juan Miguel Aguero, where he worked also Lorenzo Rodriguez: facade of the Shrine, and Luis Gomez Trasmonte: central facade. The Cathedral of Mexico will become the paradigm of colonial architecture. Francisco Becerra Puebla Cathedral rise according to this model. A Becerra owe the plans of the cathedrals of Cuzco, Quito and Lima. Another great Mexican architects is Francisco Antonio Guerrero y Torres: Hood Pocito in Puebla, who likes bright colorful glazed bricks and pottery; also built many mansions for the Mexican bourgeoisie palace Jaral de Berrio. Its decor recalls the Aztec motifs. In Puebla as actively as little known Baroque school appears. In his hand out the Capilla del Rosario (Puebla) and the sanctuaries of Ocotlan in Tlaxcala, and San Francisco Acatepec two magnificent examples of Mexican Baroque Rococo desconocido.El copyright in the Viceroyalty of Peru is marked by the earthquake in Lima of 1746. the city was completely destroyed and its reconstruction arose the most representative baroque buildings. Francisco Antonio Guerrero y Torres also worked on this viceroyalty cathedrals of Lima, Cuzco and Quito. It also works in Lima Constantino de Vasconcellos Portuguese: Convent of San Francisco. This is the archetypal monument of Lima's architecture. Jose Sida: Convent of San Agustín. In Arequipa study appears strong indigenous reminiscences. Emphasize the Jesuit church of Diego Felipe, Santo Domingo convent and the convent of San Agustín. In Colombia Simón highlights Schenherr a German-born Jesuit: Jesuit church of Cartagena de Indias and Popopayán. In Bolivia Potosi Cathedral stands. And in Argentina should mention John Kraus, German-born Jesuit: St. Ignatius Church in Buenos Aires, and Andrés Blanqui: Cathedral of Cordoba. Unfortunately, many American works, especially if they are stately homes, are anonymous author; as the palace of the Marquis of Torre-Tagle. == Bibliography == * La Colonia. * Cossio Villegas, Daniel (ed.). General History of Mexico. T. I. Mexico: El Colegio de Mexico. pp. 438-450.