The Spanish American colonial art is developed in the Spanish colonies in America, from its discovery by Christopher Columbus in 1492 to the independence of many Americans throughout the nineteenth century (the last Cuba and Puerto Rico in 1898) countries. The Spanish brought the new continent their language, culture, religion and customs, which imposed on the indigenous population, who had previously developed great civilizations such as the Maya, Aztec and Inca. Thus the colonial art is a true reflection of art made in the metropolis, assuming the end of indigenous artistic performances, pre-Columbian art. We see both the colonial art the same artistic styles that run parallel on the European continent, especially the Renaissance, Baroque and Rococó.La arrival of the conquerors was a great revolution especially in the field of architecture, with translation of the different types of own buildings of European culture: primarily churches and cathedrals, given the rapid development of the work of evangelization of Native American peoples, but also civil buildings such as town halls, hospitals, universities and private palaces and villas. In the religious field, he often happens that many churches were built on ancient Indian temples. Still, there was often a synthesis between the colonists and the ancient pre-Columbian styles manifestations, creating a symbiosis that gave a peculiar and characteristic appearance to the original European types. Thus, we see the main examples of colonial art occurred in the two geographic centers of most influence in the pre-Columbian era: Mexico and Peru. In painting and sculpture, in the early stages of colonization was frequent importation of works of European, mainly Spanish, Italian and Flemish art, but soon started own production, inspired by European models beginning, but incorporating logos of the newly pre-Columbian culture. == ===== Renaissance Architecture === the first samples of colonial architecture in America had, as in the metropolis, some sticking with Gothic features, but soon began to get the new trends that occurred in Spain, as purism and plateresco (Cathedral of Santo Domingo). At the beginning of colonization, the architecture was developed primarily religious sign: by royal order, the first building to be built in any new city was to be a church. During the first half of the sixteenth century the religious orders were responsible for the building of numerous churches in Mexico, preferably a type of fortified churches, in conjunction with a castellated church, convent, an atrium and an open-chapel called "Indian chapels "- such as the Convent Tepeaca the Huejotzingo and San Gabriel in Cholula. The various religious orders rivaled in terms of size and decoration of the buildings: the Augustinians, Dominicans and Franciscans were the ones who made most monumental and ornate buildings, such as convents Acolman, Yuriria.A Actopan and mid-century they began to build the first great cathedrals, such as Mexico, Puebla and Guadalajara.Se is usually rectangular with flat front, taking as models the Cathedral of Seville, Jaen and the Valladolid. The main sample, the Cathedral of Mexico City, was built on an Aztec temple, over 250 years (1563-1813), with a succession of styles from the Renaissance to neoclassicism. The project was Arciniega Claudio Burgos, in the Herrera style. In Peru, in 1582 the Cathedral of Cuzco was started and in 1592, the Lima, both works of Extremadura Francisco Becerra. In Argentina Córdoba Cathedral stands, the work of the Jesuit Andrés Blanqui. In parts of South Central received the Moorish influence, mainly in stalactites decorated with coffered ceilings, and San Francisco de Quito. This last church also notable for its facade of Italian Mannerist style with a staircase and serliana.En bramantina inspiration for civic architecture, the new cities built by Spanish colonists followed planimetries inspired by the classic grid pattern, plotted as the royal ordinances , which provided for the form and extent of the main square, the width and orientation of roads and the distribution of blocks of houses, arranged in a checkerboard. The first city was planned according to this system Santo Domingo. === === Painting The first signs of colonial paintings of religious scenes were made by anonymous masters, made with pre-Colombian media, vegetable and mineral inks and fabrics and rough frame irregular. They highlighted the images of the Virgin and Child, with an iconography of native roots where, for example, the archangels and contemporary musketeers were represented. Artistic production made by Indians in New Spain in the sixteenth century is called indocristiano art. They penetrated the sixteenth century came the great frescoes of popular character. Since mid-century began to arrive from Sevilla, Spanish masters (Alonso Vazquez, Alonso López de Herrera), flamingos (Simon Pereyns) and Italian (Mateo Pérez de Alesio, Angelino Medoro). === Cut === The first samples were again in the religious field, in free sizes and altarpieces for churches, usually made from wood covered with plaster and decorated with applied direct incarnation-color-or-stew on a background of silver and gold. In the early seventeenth century were born the first local schools, such as Quito, Cuzco and chilota, highlighting the sponsoring work of the Jesuit order. == ===== Baroque Architecture === The colonial baroque architecture is characterized by a profuse decoration (Home of the Profesa, Mexico; coated tiles Puebla style facades, as in San Francisco Acatepec in San Andrés Cholula and San Francisco de Puebla), which will be exacerbated in the so-called "ultra-baroque" (Facade of the Tabernacle of the Cathedral of Mexico, Lorenzo Rodriguez, Tepotzotlán Church, Templo de Santa Prisca in Taxco). In Mexico City, civil architecture reached heights of luxury and ostentation, with the construction of great palaces of the rich magnates of the mining business (Palace of the Count of San Mateo Valparaíso, current National Bank; Jaral Marques de Palacio del Barrio; Palacio del Conde de Santiago Calimaya, now the Museum of the City of Mexico.) in Peru, the constructs developed in Lima and Cuzco from 1650 show some original features that are advanced even the European Baroque, and the use of padded walls and columns Solomonic (Iglesia de la Compania, Cuzco, San Francisco, Lima). In the eighteenth century architecture was aimed at a more exuberant style, giving an unmistakable look to the Lima Baroque (Palacio del Marqués de Torre Tagle, now Ministry of Foreign Affairs). The Church of San Agustin de Lima (1720) is notable for its façade, conceived as a large altarpiece. Other important works are the churches of the Society of Arequipa (1698) and Quito (1722-1765). === === Painting Early influences were the Seville tenebrismo mainly Zurbaran-some of whose works are still preserved in Mexico and Peru, as can be seen in the work of Mexican José Juárez and Sebastián López de Arteaga, and the Bolivian Melchor Pérez Holguín. In Cuzco, the Sevillian influence was interpreted in a particular way, with abundant use of gold and application of indigenous style in the details, although usually inspired Flemish pictures. The Cuzco School of painting arose from the arrival of the Italian painter Bernardo Bitti in 1583, which introduced the mannerism in America. He highlighted the work of Luis de Riano, disciple of the Italian Angelino Medoro, author of temple murals Andahuaylillas. Also highlighted the Indian painters Diego Quispe Tito and Basilio Santa Cruz Puma Callao and Marcos Zapata, author of fifty large canvases covering the high arches of the Cathedral of the eighteenth century Cuzco.En sculptural altarpieces began to be replaced of paintings, notably baroque painting developed in America. Similarly, increased the demand for civil type, mainly portraits of the aristocratic classes and the church hierarchy. The main influence is that of Murillo, and in some cases, as in the Cristóbal de Villalpando-Valdes Leal. The painting of this period has a more sentimental tone, with more sweet and soft forms. Highlights Gregorio Vázquez de Arce in Colombia, and Juan Rodríguez Juárez and Miguel Cabrera in Mexico. === Cut === In the seventeenth century stressed the sculpture developed in Lima, with authors such as Catalan Pedro Noguera, originally of Mannerist style , evolving into the baroque in works like masonry of the Cathedral of Lima; Valladolid Hernández Galván Gomes, author of the Tables of the Cathedral; Juan Bautista Vásquez, author of a sculpture of the Virgin known as the Chancellor, currently on the Riva-Agüero Institute; and Diego Rodrigues, author of the image of the Virgin of Copacabana in the homonymous sanctuary Rímac District of Lima. == See also == * indocristiano Latin American Art * Art * Art * novohispano Baroque Peru * Argentina * Painting Museum colonial art == ** == References ==== References == external Links == * colonial art * colonial art art Spain...