Atilio Supparo (Uruguay, April 26, 1871 - Buenos Aires, April 22, 1942) was a writer, poet, dancer, theater director and actor of stage and screen. Regarding the place of birth some sources give in Montevideo, Salto other and others in San Jose. == == Early life was an intuitive writer, a poet who cultivated the jacket poetry, theater director with happy successes and above Noble is so brave and inspirational man. His father, a pharmacist, who was the consul of Italy in Uruguay, sent with his brother to Italy where it remained between 10 and 14 years. He studied Greek and Latin, he read widely in Italian, translated pieces of the Divine Comedy into Latin and other texts from Dante to Spanish. At age 16, back to his country, he began working in a shop and then the Bank of Italy; in those years the poet and amateur theater began to emerge. In this last area frequented representations Ermete Novelli, Eleonora Duse, Tina Di Lorenzo, Jacinta Pezzana and the Podesta brothers. He began directing theater at age 18 in an armed tabladillo in a family home, for friends people, then quit his job and worked with his brother in farming for a year later, traveling to Buenos Aires. == Its activity There in the theater == approached the Podesta, he was attending readings, witnessed the tests, observations made and directions, until in 1901 it joined Pepe Podesta as a counselor, advisor and secretary. In 1905 he directed the Apollo Theater premieres of two classic Florencio Sánchez, Barranca down and the dead, and one of Martin Coronado, La Stone Canyon below escándalo.La work is represented with a cast exception: Pablo Podesta, Podesta Pepe Leah Conti, Herminia Mancini, Blanca Vidal, Olinda Bozán, Rosa Bozán Mary Broda, Humberto Scotti, Pascual Torterolo, Totón Podesta, Juan Farias. In the following years led Paul Podesta until 1909. Also addressed Roberto Casaux in 1911 in the season at the Teatro Argentino and Francisco Ducasse.Por was commissioned by Charles Dodero was responsible for building the Vera Theatre in Corrientes and in 1914 traveled to Montevideo to take charge of the Experimental Drama School had founded three years earlier and led since then-Jacinta Pezzana. Although at that time the theater style reigned Sarah Bernhardt with his bombastic declamation, Pezzana won his academy naturalism. She was a dreamer, a romantic socialist who longed to create a theater with free admission for everyone, so that men learn it your destiny of freedom. After finishing the school day, students who perceived the Uruguayan-State a small salary, so they could fully engage in the theater were a small company. At School, plus the best of the River Plate theater repertoire included works by Jacinto Benavente, the brothers Alvarez Quintero, Sacha Guitry, Linares Rivas, among others. Came out of that school theater professionals like Carmen Mendez, Humberto Nazzari Passano Ricardo, Francisco Mastandrea, Orestes Caviglia, Gloria Ferrandiz & Sunday Sapelli. Upon retiring Pezzana, Atilio Supparo formed with students and Argentine actors, Uruguayan and Spanish, a huge cast of forty people, actors and singers, predominantly Argentines: the River Plate Comedy Company. Comedies, sketches and pieces musicales.Supparo spent seven years as head of the institution and then returned to Buenos Aires became. Pascual Carcavallo hired to direct the National Theatre and director also did work for other companies and performers: National Company Skits, Comedy, Magazines Arata-Mancini in 1923 at the Teatro Porteño; César Ratti at the Apollo Theatre in 1930; Olinda Bozán the Comedy Theatre in 1932; Company Cicarelli-Bustos-Mutarelli the Comedy Theatre in 1932; Company Arellano Popular Entertainment in 1935; Pierina Dealessi at the Lyceum Theatre in 1939; FernandoOchoa in 1940 and Ratti brothers at the Apollo in 1942, making his last start with colegio.En Worst of the 1930s worked in radio, usually as a company director and sometimes as librettist, usually in some subjects it camperos.Escribió 20 musical works, tangos and Jeeps in general subjects, of whom Gardel recorded already pa 'what and Pa' what else, Gaucho style sun and moon figure gaucho. In collaboration with Julio De Caro made inland with music by Héctor Artola Canto progress to life == Rating == The Nation obituary reproduced by Jorge Nielsen said. == == Filmography, Actor * Nobleza Gaucha (1937) * Commissioner already have the people (1936) * Help me to live (1936) .... Grandfather; Composer * the Unforgiving (1938) * Help me to live (1936) (letter); Address dialog * .. . And dreams pass == ** == References == external Links == * Information about Atilio Supparo Internet Movie Data Base * Atilio Supparo information on the site of the national cinema