Augusto Torres (Terrassa, 1913 - Barcelona, 1992) was a Uruguayan painter and muralist painter español.Hijo origin Joaquín Torres García and Manolita Pineapple, born in Terrassa, Barcelona, in 1913 and died in 1992 this city, having she lived in his later years. === Bio === his childhood was spent in different cities, let Terrassa in 1919 by New York, where they will reside until 1922 when they returned to Europe and settled with his family in Fiesole (Italy), where lived until 1926. these years will allow familiarize with fresh Tuscan city and Florencia.Posteriormente, march to France for Paris, where they will be installed at Jean Helion, Augusto awakening interest in African sculpture and anthropology. In 1928, only 15, he was hired by the Musée de Trocadero (now Museum of Man) to illustrate and inventory collection Inca vessels and Nazca, and awakening his interest in Indian culture, also beginning his studies of art history , customs and metaphysics americanos.En 1930 Indians working in the studio of Julio González, which helps in making a replica of the "Hommage à Apollinaire" Picasso, who often visits the workshop. In those years involved in two exhibitions in Paris and meet Van Doesburg, Calder, Arp, Lipchitz and Severini, family friends whose conversations and influence the personality of the young Augustus, who also study drawing on the study of Amédée Ozenfant. in 1933, his family moved to Madrid, where he studied ceramics and visit the Museo del Prado, which allows you to study the works of El Greco, Goya and Velázquez. The latter will mark profundamente.Tras exhibit at the Salon des Surindependents Paris, his family moved permanently to return to Uruguay Montevideo.The mark a turning point in his life. His father founded the Association of Constructive Art and later the Taller Torres García, where young painters formed in constructivist theories. His friendship with the painter and disciple of Torres García Alceu Ribeiro will take to make him his first exhibition in Montevideo and travel together to Bolivia and Peru to study the art precolombino.Tras his father died in 1949 combines the management of the Torres García with trips to Europe until its closure at the end of the workshop 1967.Tras divided his time between Barcelona and Montevideo, performing various collaborations with architect Antoni Bonet and presenting his work in exhibitions in galleries and museums in Montevideo, New York, Sao Paulo, Venice, Madrid and Barcelona, and participating in the Venice Biennale, the Bienal de Sao Paulo or ARCO.Fallece 1992.Tras fair in Barcelona on his death, his work has continued to be exhibited in galleries and museums around the world, highlighting among the sample group exhibitions 1992 "School South, the Taller Torres García and his legacy," traveling by National Museum Centro de Arte Reina Sofia in Madrid, the M.Hintington Texas Art Gallery, the Museum of Monterrey the Bronx Museum in New York and the Rufino Tamayo Museum in Mexico City, "Constructive Universalism" in the Art Museum of the Americas, Washington, "the exhibition at the gallery Cecilia Torres of New York" 65 years of constructivist Wood "and samples" El Taller Torres García ", held at the Dalmau gallery in Barcelona and the Centre Cultural Caixa de Terrassa Terrassa in 1998 and" 25 anys from gallery "in the Sala Dalmau, both awarded with the prize of ACCA (Association of Catalan Art Criticism) for the best exhibition of the year. Between individual samples include those held in 1994 at the Museo Torres Garcia Montevideo in 2003 Sicardi Gallery, Texas, or exposure to Sala Dalmau in 2005 that served as the closing event of the 25th anniversary of that work is galería.Su, among others, the Miró Foundation in Barcelona, the Museum of Modern Art in New York and the National Museum of Visual Arts and Museo Torres Garcia Montevideo. === * === 1943 Work mural mural on house architect Freddy Guttman in Buenos Aires. * 1944 Participates with Torres Garcia and members of his studio at the completion of the murals of Saint-Bois, Montevideo. * 1954 Plate 2 x 6 m. for the Medical Association of Montevideo. * 1958 Mural in relief for the Lyceum Miranda, Montevideo. * 1964Colabora with architect Antoni Bonet with a large mural limestone for Banco Rio de la Plata from Montevideo * Ceramic Mural 1968 2 x 6 m. in the house of Leborgne architect Ernesto. * 1976 Mural 27 square meters polychrome wood carving in collaboration with architect Antoni Bonet in Barcelona. * 1978 Mural 4 x 1.60 m. Discount for Overseas Bank Ltd. in Montevideo. * 1979 2 wall, one in 2'75 x 14'74 wood m. and another 2'72 x 16'5 Ceramic m. in collaboration with the architect Antoni Bonet. === References === ****** === External links ===