Downhill is a play Uruguayan playwright Florencio Sánchez, which premiered in Buenos Aires, at the Apollo Theatre on April 26, 1905, by the company of Joseph Podesta; one of the two that had split in 1901 the original of the Podesta brothers. Florencio Sánchez had written shortly before, during a brief stay in Montevideo, at its padres.Es considered by some as a rural drama, while others classify it as a tragedy. The theme of the play is the disgrace of the gaucho class in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century. Characters == == The characters that make up the drama is eleven. They are listed by the author at the beginning of the work: * Don Zoilo Caravajal: the protagonist of the play, which represents the end of the century gaucho * Doña Dolores. Zoilo wife. * Caution: the eldest daughter of Don Zoilo. . Initially promised Aniceto, despite having an affair with Juan Luis * Robustiana: the youngest daughter of Don Zoilo. The only showing affection and respect for his father * Rudecinda. Zoilo sister. Do not have affection * Martiniana. Zoilo neighbor. Do not have affection. (Figure matchmaker) * Don Juan Luis: rancher. He is the winner of the lawsuit over the ownership of the field occupied by Don Zoilo, and lover of Prudence * Gutierrez. Commissioner of the area, trying to help women to flee the field Zoilo * Antshrike. Pawn golf gift Zoilo. * Aniceto: godson of Don Zoilo, and initially fiancee Prudence but she rejects him. Robustiana marries. * Sergeant Martin: Sergeant in comisaría.miniaturadeimagen | image portraying the typical gaucho dress of the century. The protagonist of the work corresponds to the stereotype of the gaucho. === Source === Some of the names of the names of the characters in the play has an ironic meaning, while others evoke directly to the character's personality. Thus, the author chose "Dolores" to designate a character who is constantly plagued by imaginary aches and fatigue, "Robustiana" (from "robust") to appoint a person who is weak and sickly, "Prudence" for the one whose behavior is totally selfless and foolish, "Rudecinda" ("tough") for an indelicate character and insensitive character, and "Zoilo" (a rural deformation of the word "only") to refer to the protagonist, who is characterized by being neglected by her family. == plot == the structure and plot of the play looks at the collapse of the life of the protagonist, Don Zoilo, to be losing their lands and affection of his family. The book is divided into three acts, which in turn are divided into 21 scenes first, 18 second and 15 the third. === === First act Don Zoilo just lost their land due to the illegal actions of some businessmen. Thanks to the loving relationship between her daughter and a wealthy rancher Prudence, Don Zoilo and your family can stay in their stay, despite having lost her. Added to this, the protagonist has a bad relationship with members of his family and his sister Prudence Rudecinda, squandered what little money they have and what they accuse their fault, living in poverty, and his wife, Dolores, does nothing to prevent this abuse as it lacks character. In contrast to these characters are Robustiana, her other daughter, unstable and Aniceto health, his godson, who are the only ones who love and respect to Zoilo.Al end of the first act, Don Zoilo discover the relationship between Prudence, I was engaged to Aniceto, Juan Luis. Once aware, decide not would sully his honor, and moved to a small farm that lends his godson. === === Second act already in their new home, the women of the family express their dissatisfaction, wishing you a higher level of life. Therefore, begin to plot an escape to the city along with a midwife, Martiniana. Moreover, Aniceto declares his love to Robustiana, seeing that it is the only one in the house that shows affection for Don Zoilo. === === Third Act promises are broken marriage because Robustiana death caused by worsening of their disease due to pressure her aunt, her sister and her mother had over her. Also, because of his death, the escape of the three women was delayed. Finally, Martiniana arrives to help her friends escape but betrays Aniceto and tells the Don Zoilo plan.A the last moment and unexpectedly, Zoilo decided not to object to the flight of women. Dolores regrets, seeing the sadness of her husband, he had never intervened in his favor, but Don Zoilo not accept his apologies and tells him to go with Prudence and Rudecinda.La work has a tragic ending: Zoilo grabs a rope and plans to hang it in a tree to hang himself. When trying to have the string locks with a nest of baker, fails down. When this happens, the character refers to a phrase that sums up the plot of the play: "The things of God ... the nest of a man is more easily rid the nest of a bird!" == Primitive text of the play There was a primitive == text of the play, in which he varied only the tragic end of the play. In the original version, the moment in which Don Zoilo is about to commit suicide, Aniceto intervenes, preventing it from hanging himself. However, the day after the premiere, the critics said dissatisfied with the final, getting serious claims. "Last act needs to be strengthened with pruning. Audiences, which has altogether infallible sense of understanding, said last night that Mr. Zoilo should hang himself without anyone stop you. it is our impression, too. Sobran philosophies on life and hurts the little lucid paper (we would say otherwise) of Aniceto, when prevents suicide old and then leaves attempt to repeat. "Florencio Sánchez was due be affected by the review as allowed Joseph Podesta modify the end of the play, as the review had indicated. == == Space and time in the original text of Florencio Sanchez did not specify the location of the work, although it can be deduced that the work is located in a rural area of Uruguay or Argentina. Some editions of the work briefly clarify: "The action in the countryside of Entre Rios." The first act is located in the courtyard of the original Don Zoilo stay, in which the characters live up to the conflict that occurs at the end of the act. It is described as an old house, but remains in good condition. The second and third act, however, develop in a humble ranch lends Aniceto Don Zoilo, which contrasts with the elegance of the room first acto.En how long, the work is set in the same time which is written (1905). Is not specified in the work, but it appears that between acts spend an undetermined amount of days. In some editions, a reference that says that between the second and third acts there is a period of twenty days is added. In the play, many important events occur offstage, between indefinite between acts. For example, moving Don Zoilo Robustiana and death. In total, we can estimate that the play takes place in a span of one to three months. == Language == All characters, especially the protagonist's family, are expressed in its own "gaucho" Ringtone Argentine rural area and Uruguay. Therefore, the author recreates the dialogue using expressions, linguistic distortions and visual images rioplatense own rural speech. He speaks of women's work has, however, many loans popular speech of the cities then. The other characters have a level of speech also according to their social and economic reality: for example, Juan Luis, the rancher, expressed as an educated man city, no alterations beyond the typical characteristics of the River Plate Spanish and some expression field.The author makes use of silence to mark the differences between his characters well, while Rudencinda and Martiniana are characters who speak more than necessary, don Zoilo vaguely expressed and reserve. Don Zoilo often ignored questions from other characters humming or murmuring. == References ==== See also == * M'hijo the Doctor, another play by Florencio Sánchez rural plot. == External links ==