Berta Pereira Majo (Montevideo, June 10, 1958) is a Uruguayan percussionist specializing in Afro-Uruguayan music. Founder of the group dance, percussion and singing Berta Pereira and Comadres ==. == Biography His family consisted of his parents, and his three older brothers whose names are Raul, Beatriz and Diego. It was a family that was very interested in music, almost all played guitar, but in turn had different tastes in music, therefore it since childhood he was greatly influenced by his family, who encouraged her to pursue the scope of musical.Además pursue music studied ballet, contemporary dance, and some martial arts. As was the era of the civil-military dictatorship (1973-1985) and the School of Fine Arts was closed down, took several courses in studio Zina Fernández: ceramics, drawing and painting, batik, jewelry. He later studied ceramics at the UTU. He also studied French and portugués.Ha lived in France where he participated in various musical groups, and in Panama, where he was trained in theater and music session, sharing with many different musicians, latin, bossa and jazz.En Uruguay teatro.Realizó has taught guitar studies, theater, clarinet and otros.Se Chicken Píriz married, who had a son named Lorenzo. == == Works in 1995 created the group Berta Pereira and Comadres, which focuses on the Afro-Uruguayan music and other folklore uruguayo.Este group consists of women who want to express themselves through music, like singing, persecution, and also the danza.En this year, releases his CD "biting an apple "with the gossips, chicken Piriz, Fernando Goicoechea and Lucrecia Basaldúa.En 1996 released the CD biting an apple, with his esposo.Ha participated in many shows promoting his CD in Uruguay and other países.Años later in 1999, also Piriz premiere "The vast network of heaven." in 2001, performs her show "Bug light", along with Chicken Piriz and distributed across several rooms in Montevideo and the interior of Uruguay. Berta has participated as a session musician with many characters like Lobo Lagarde, Bardo Khan, Elbio Rodríguez, among otros.En 2001 participated in the cast of the play Children Circus polizón.En 2002 directed two dance and music: Basquadé Experience íntima.En 2005 and premiered Don Sacrosanto and Gloria, with the company Unomismo. That same year he participated in the play Ubu King (written by Alfred Jarry (1873-1907). In July 2006 Chicken Piriz-associated and-Unomismo Company premiered the work in the September of the same sky estrellas.En year opened with the same team Comadres and cabbage, criollo.Participa assembly to present the SonSueño workshop, the teacher Mariela Celentano (1957-2009). in 2012 he released a CD with Cyro Rodriguez, inspired by native slopes . in April 2012 he toured with the show Tamudando with Luis Bravo.Tiene as CD launch another project alongside Piriz Chicken, named Thanksgiving. == References ==...