Carlos Jerónimo Villademoros (Cerro Largo, 1806 - Montevideo, 1853) was a lawyer, writer and politician of the White Party, which held several important positions in the presidencies of Manuel Oribe, with whom he worked closely == Biography == Born in Cerro. long and his parents were Palomeque Montevideo Jacinta and military from Asturias Villademoros Ramón. His family enjoyed good social position and his godfather was Carlos Anaya. He was orphaned at a young age, when her father died fighting in the ranks of the United Provinces of the River Plate from 1816 in 1811.A lived and studied in Montevideo where he earned a scholarship and received attorney succeeded in Buenos Aires. In 1831 he was appointed auditor of War and Civil Instance. By the time he began writing in newspapers like The Defender of the Laws, The Oriental Eco and Republican. He also began publishing poems as odes, pastorals, letrillas and his play "The Thirty-Three". The same with other of his writings were collected in the publication Parnassus 1837 Oriental.En Oribe was named as charge d'affaires in Brazil. Between 1837 and 1838 he served as Deputy for Montevideo at 3. ª session of the House of Representatives. He assumed the post of Minister of Government and Foreign Affairs in 1838. Later that year acted as representative of the government initiated peace negotiations with Fructuoso Rivera. When the elected government fell into the hands of the latter marched Oribe into exile who remained during the war against the unitarios.En the time of the siege of Montevideo was appointed Minister of Government and Foreign Affairs of the Government of Cerrito and later also assumed as Minister of War and Navy. The journalist was Defender of American independence and often found himself faced with Bernardo P. Berro and Eduardo Acevedo which represented the most liberal of oribismo sector. He retired from politics at the end of the Great War, wrote his memoirs and lived his last years with certain economic difficulties. == References ==...