The House of Comedy was the first theater that existed in Montevideo. == History == The Comedy House was opened in 1793 driven by several factors, including the political. In Montevideo under Spanish domination, the governor of Montevideo Olaguer Antonio Feliu and the commander of the Río de la Plata Antonio Córdoba, asked the Portuguese merchant Manuel Cipriano de Mello and Meneses to pen erected in a rented house Comedies for "fun the souls of the inhabitants of this town that could have a bankruptcy on your loyalty, because of the freedom that had adopted the French Revolution. "of background may be mentioned a score of 1792 discovered by Professor Juan Carlos Sabat Pebet in Montevideo which the presentation of a puppet of Juan Camacho says. Moreover Lauro Ayestarán mentioned theatricals provided by officers of the Spanish navy commanded by Juan Jacinto Vargas in a makeshift circus in the plaza of the fort which people woke up in Montevideo "extraordinary interest and contributed to the erection of our first theater" . Montevideo was the last capital to be founded by the Spanish crown and as such, the emergence of the theatrical experience was late compared to other parts of America. At the time of inauguration of the House of Comedy Central, Comedy House Mexico already had 200 years, the Corral de Santo Domingo in Lima became operational in 1600, the Coliseum Comedies Potosí offered shows from 1716 while the Theatre of Buenos Aires Rancheria worked for several años.Archivo: Aim at carbon House Comedias.jpg | thumb | Point carbon done by Besnes and Irigoyen 1838 About the House of Comedy may be the national flag.. the shows at the House of Comedy continued until the British took Montevideo on February 3, 1807. such construction was then intended as living cashmere cuffs and store items, as was published in the Southern Star. After British troops were driven out, the theater began to function as such and on 12 August the same year the play premiered "The unblemished loyalty and Buenos Aires avenged", taking as its historical context the recent invasions. Its author, the priest Juan Francisco Martínez was the first oriental to write a play in the territory that would become Uruguay. == == The building emerges from the notes of the calligrapher and artist Juan Manuel Besnes e Irigoyen, the House Comedy was a modest building, which was nothing more than a large shed roof shingles. Its interior was described in 1807 by an officer of the expedition Craufurd of Brigadier follows: == posterior Destination == thumb | Photography Comedy House taken around 1879, shortly before demolición.A theater from 1814 he was known as "Colosseum" but continued calling "House of Comedies" interchangeably. In September 1843 happens to have the name "Theatre Trade". He was later called "National Theatre" and finally took the name "Theatre of San Felipe and Santiago" or simply "Theatre of San Felipe." It was demolished around 1878 and reopened as "Teatro San Felipe" or "New San Felipe." In 1905 the colonial building was once again demolished along with other buildings in that block and in its place was built the residence of the Ortiz family of Taranco. That residence now known as Palacio Taranco was ceded to the state in 1940 and is now the Museum of Decorative Arts of Montevideo == References ==== See also == * Annex. Theatres Montevideo == External Links ==