thumb | woman selling pottery at the Feria de Texcoco, State of MexicoThe ceramics and pottery in Mexico emerges from thousands of years before the pre-Columbian period, when ceramic art and pottery were developed with the first advanced cultures and civilizations of Mesoamerica . With some exceptions, the prehispanic pots were unglazed, but rather polished and painted with colors of slip. The potter's wheel was unknown; the pieces were made by molds and other métodos.Después COLOMBIN the Spanish conquest, European techniques and designs were introduced and mixed with native traditions. Indigenous traditions survive in a few pottery items such as griddles. The ceramics produced from basics like dishes, cookware new objects such as sculptures and Mexican folk art. Although the highlight of these elements, most of ceramic items produced in the country are floor and wall tiles along with bathroom accessories. Mexico has a number of famous artisan ceramic traditions, most of which are in the center and south of the country. Examples are the Talavera of Puebla, the majolica of Guanajuato, the various vessels in the area of Guadalajara, and the black mud of Oaxaca. More recent is the production of vases and bowls pottery of Mata Ortiz in Chihuahua. Although the number of artisans has been dropping due to competition from mass produced, making popular and consumer still has an important role in the economy of Mexico and the production of ceramics in general is still important to Mexican culture. == History == the manufacture of pottery began replacing stone tools in Purrón period (2300-1500 BC). Many of these first ceramics were made pumpkin shaped like a continuation of when these vegetables were used to transport liquids. These clay tiles became a tradition in pottery, which used mostly natural clay coated with a thin slip. Most clays in Mexico need to be tempered to regulate water absorption, with the exception of the clay used in pottery Thin Orange Coast Gulf of Mexico City.The prehispanic vessels were formed using techniques like COLOMBIN and molding. Except for a proto-wheel used by the Zapotecs, the potter's wheel was unknown until the Spanish conquest. The pots were usually made by the family to the method of simple "pinch" and large pieces were molded by craftsmen. The first castings were made in clay pressed against a first existing, but double molds were used to make containers with relief decorations. Examples of this type exist in Tlaxcala and Puebla. Many figurines were also made using molds. Sometimes vessels were made of several pieces and molded top finished by "churros mud." With some exceptions, the prehispanic pieces vidriaban not, but the finish was made with a very fine clay cover . This bath often contain mineral pigments to give color to it could be added before or after cooking. The cooking was done over an open fire or in a pit. Figurines were made often in the family home. The vessels are made of a pile on the floor or in a pit covered timber. Many times, the use of this method for firing pots, gave results of poor finish and cracked, with the exception of only Delgado.La Orange glazed ceramic pottery from Mesoamerica is known as ceramic or Plumbate plumbate. It was covered by a slip colloidal cooked to a high enough temperature, and its composition in iron and chrome, giving the pieces a metallic luster appearance with a range of colors ranging from gray, violet, orange and green. It was produced only for a short time and its appearance marks the Postclassic Mesoamerican sites in many arqueológicos.Existen over thirty known methods that have been used to decorate pre-Hispanic pottery including designs pressed into the clay textile medium, or pressed elements like shells and use pointed sticks. Also used were a variety of ways and preserving paint colors both during and after cooking. The designs generally fall into four categories: geometric, realistic or naturalistic (generally stylized animals and people), symbolic and pictographic. Most designs are related to other crafts and artistic works such as paintings murals. All these styles and methods of pottery can still be found in modern Mexico. European Traditions === === The Spanish Conquest introduced European traditions of pottery and had an impact on native traditions. Some pottery forms survived intact as the griddles, mortars, bowls kitchenettes, utensils and censers. This was done mainly in ceramics and some anaranja was done in red and black (red on buff pottery of the Mixteca Alta). All pre-Hispanic figurines, which were almost always related to religion, disappeared and were replaced by images of the Virgin Mary, angels, monks, soldiers, devils and European animals such as dogs, cows and sheep. The main effect on production was the introduction of the potter's wheel, the closed oven, lead glazes and new forms such as candlesticks and pitchers. The importation of European and Asian ceramics mostly affected in decorative styles produced by natives. The effect was felt more in the central highlands of Mexico, near Mexico City. While some traditional pre-Hispanic styles were produced in the early colonial, quality and aesthetics was drastically reduced to almost nothing by completo.La European style ceramic, especially glazed pottery produced by native artisans, began early in the colonial era but was poorly done with only two colors, green and amber. Most of the decorations were made with a mixture of Spanish and indigenous designs. The most common forms were jugs, jars and bowls for everyday use. Over time, the production of majolica glazed ceramics, which was expensive to import from Europe, was developed and regulated by the middle of the seventeenth century. The best place in Puebla but also work in other places like Mexico City, Guadalajara, Aguascalientes and elsewhere. These pieces have a mostly white or cream background color painted on it in one or more colors designs. During the rest of the colonial period, indigenous styles continued to deteriorate throughout New Spain, while foreign influences from Europe, Asia and the Middle East produced changes in decor. At the time of the War of Independence of Mexico, Mexican majolica was exported throughout the New World and led to the Spanish version off the market. However, this domain does not last long, porcelain from England and Asia much cheaper industry lobbied the XIX.Archivo century MezcaleroMEAPO.JPG | thumb | Pitcher of black mud at the State Museum of Folk Art of Oaxaca . === XX and XXI centuries === Mexico continued to import and copying styles of France and England during the twentieth century; although there have been native innovations during the last century and a half. Most of the pottery produced in central Mexico is cooked at low temperatures and is covered with a glaze made with lead and other minerals. This is because lead is merged and produces a brightness at a firing temperature lower than 800 ° C, while other alternatives require twice temperature. The use of lead in these goods has been health warnings in Mexico and the United States, with risks that were already known in the nineteenth century. Lead varnish tends to leach into food after repeated use. The use of this type of pottery has been linked with elevated blood levels in children of Mexico City, Oaxaca and other places and in more severe levels in children of potters blood. The lead content is highest in Oaxacan pottery. Due to the lead content, the U.S. has blocked the entry of this pottery in its market, where prices could reach more altos.En 1990s, FONART, a government entity that promotes the craft and several NGOs worked to produce an alternative of a lead-free glaze would work with the low temperature ceramic. This glaze is based on boron. They have also worked to ensure that the artisans install fans in their kilns to make combustion more efficient. This has allowed a large significant pottery low temperature part is qualified "lead" and can be exportada.Sin But researchers found lead in products labeled with the label of "unleaded". Although the boron glaze costs less than the traditional lead glaze, many potters refused to change their tradition. In total, only half of the potters of Mexico have changed. In some places the problem is the lack of information about glazes and elsewhere, artisans say they need financial support from the government, especially for options that require a gas oven. Another problem is that many do not trust the government and ignore the warnings Ceramic Production == == thumb |. Left | Potters working in the section of Ceramic Fair Texcoco.La pottery and ceramics is the art more practiced in Mexico. The forms and functions of the parts vary from simple flat griddles, used to make tortillas, up to the elaboration of complex sculptures called Trees of Life. The most basic forms, such as griddles, pots, bowls and other merchandise simple cooking and storage are still based on designs and other storage items are based on ancient Native designs. Ceramics and decorative figures are almost entirely dominated by European traditions, especially in central Mexico. In some cases, there is a mix of both traditions, especially in ornamental designs where indigenous elements combine with elements europeos.Una relatively new tradition in ceramics is folk art. These pieces are mostly decorative, such as figures, tiles and fine china teacups and as most dishes. These are produced for the Mexican upper class, the international market, and to some extent, for tourists. The production of popular art is encouraged by the government at all levels, with a large number of artisans who sign their best pieces. While this market segment maintains ties to the past, is also sensitive to fashion trends. This leads to experimentation with new decorative elements and the disappearance of parts not venden.Las imperfections in the pieces are less tolerated in local Mexican markets in other countries working more in series. The reason for this is that the mechanized production of almost perfect copies is still a relatively new phenomenon, so that imperfections showing something that has been done by hand does not have the "charm" it could have on the countries industrializados.La most potters work in family workshops, with everyone participating in the process, these families tend to be more secretive about their practices and rarely cooperate with an outsider for any aspect of the manufacture of pottery. Superstition may surround the process, especially during cooking, taking care of the potters 'evil eye' of the neighbors, and building small shrines to perform Christian and indigenous blessings. Both men and women molded parts, but men usually do larger pieces (due to weight) and are the orders of the oven. The children work with clay since he was six, making small decorative items. Usually, they begin to make pots around fourteen and dominate the process at eighteen. The man in charge of the family workshop, is often found in the retirement age and its main objective is to teach and supervise production. However, many of these shops are disappearing as elders stop working completely, and children and young people seeking careers more rentables.Los Mexican potters often use local clays, removed themselves and pay someone to transport by donkey or truck. The type of mixture used varies depending on location, from the use of lint anea in Metepec, sand in Acatlán de Osorio or fiber kapok in Ameyaltepec to give the clay the right consistency and protect from cracking. In some cases the feldspar is used. The natural clay comes in pieces, which must be dried and then crushed with a rolling stone or flail. Some ingenious in Metepec, potters put the pieces on the street in front of your house and let cars pass overhead. Another way to remove impurities and give it a finer quality clay is dissolved in water, in this way impurities and rougher sediment sinks to the bottom of the buckets. thumb | Interior of furnace used in the studio of Dona Rosa in San Bartolo Coyotepec OaxacaTodos methods used in ancient times, along with the potter's wheel, are still used to manufacture parts. The COLOMBIN usually limited to finish a piece that has already been pressed into a mold. The molding is the most common way of producing closed vessels. Most of these molds are concave or convex, where the clay is pressed against the inside or outside of the mold. Sometimes liquid clay into molds plastic is poured, but this is considered 'less authentic'. The turntables are commonly used in the most sophisticated and often workshops to quickly make a series of small vessels. Its use is more common in Guanajuato and Jalisco than in other parts of the country. In many places, the tornio is foot operated, rather than electricity. Hand turned wheels are also used. In Oaxaca, a kind of proto-wheel has been used by the Zapotecs since pre-Hispanic times. It has a balanced inverted plate on another plate that rotates to help shape the piece. It is used most often for black pottery made in San Bartolo Coyotepec. == References ==== References == External Links == * ==