Historians claim that Creole circus was the first show that came into play some of the South American identity, having been the first to quit the mimic arts from Europe, has its beginnings in the mid-eighteenth century in Argentina and Uruguay.Realizaba presentations in tents that went from town to town, their signifiación has been featured in all the references to rioplatense theater on everything related to the activity of the Podesta Brothers and the late nineteenth century. It was a circus show with runway and stage plays where they played the most important artistic role. It features two parts, the first of skills and the second action (Creole drama). The first and most famous drama is titled Juan Moreira, depicting the history of the gaucho prosecuted by law, subject previously treated by José Hernández Martín Fierro. == History == Creole circus Sebastián Suárez was born in 1840 aboard a vessel in Brazilian jurisdiction, although it would be recorded in Buenos Aires. As a child sees the Olympic Circus John Lippolis, and that encounter led him to look like burlap bags, which disassembles and reassembles extended to make his first carp. Cañas, rafters, and wood bats to help him frame number, the audience and the arena. But he raises the issue of lighting. Your financial crisis prevents you from getting lamps or candles, so with containers, bottles and apothecary jars, fat as fuel and threads and pieces of cloth manufactures candiles.En every circus presentation area Sebastián Suárez learns tricks and techniques used makeup and outlandish clothes and becomes tony. At the entrance stands a sign that reads: "Circus Flor America." So the first Creole circus, which then Alejandro Rivero (son of Sebastián Suárez) baptizes Union Circus Circus and then the 7 Hermanos.Algunos historians believe that the true Creole circus born April 1, 1886 when the brothers born José Podesta Geronimo Podesta and represent the work of Eduardo Gutiérrez Juan Moreira in Chivilcoy, Buenos Aires.Los Podesta brothers, with his company, Circus Arena in 1880 roamed Uruguay and sailed to Buenos Aires. They spread greatly gaucho themes and musical airs. He unveiled the Pericón replacing cat folk. They managed to make known traditional musical rhythms throughout the Argentine territory, rescuing from oblivion many of them. == See also == * Culture * Argentina * Juan Moreira Criollo (drama) * Brothers * José Podesta Podesta == Bibliography references === * Raúl ===== Castagnino Centuries Circo Criollo. Buenos Aires, 1958 * Raúl Castagnino El Circo Criollo, Data and Documents For its history. Buenos Aires, 1953; February. Edition 1969. * Raúl Castagnino Teatro Argentino Argentingay * Raúl Castagnino Premoreirista Theatre (1717-1884). Buenos Aires, 1969 * Juan Gonzalez Urtiaga Creole circus in Uruguay. Their artists, repertoire and vocabulary. Montevideo, 2003....