Claudio Bravo Camus (Valparaiso, November 8, 1936 - Taroudant, Morocco, June 4, 2011) was a Chilean painter hyper-although he himself defined as surrealist because, unlike the first, did not use photography as -model, who lived and worked in Morocco from 1972 until the day of his death. == Biography ===== Early life === from farming family, lived most of his childhood in rural Melipilla . He studied at the Colegio San Ignacio, the Jesuit, in Santiago (1945-1954) and then drawing and painting for some time, with the academic painter Miguel Venegas Cifuentes. However, Bravo is primarily a autodidacta.En 1954, just 17 years old, had his first solo exhibition in 1955 Trece Lounge in Santiago.En danced with the Ballet Company and worked for Teatro Test of the Catholic University of Chile . Since then Bravo alternated his time between Santiago and Concepcion, a city moving towards 1959. He meets the philosopher Luis Oyarzun, "who receive teachings that would impact her life intensely." === === International career In 1960 was established as a portrait painter in Madrid, where he was immediately recognized for its amazing ability to create verisimilitude. Their ability to represent objects and complex shapes reminiscent Velázquez.En 1968 Bravo received an invitation from Ferdinand Marcos, then president of the Philippines, to paint him and his wife, Imelda Marcos, as well as members of the Philippine high society. But finally Bravo not portrayed the Marcos because not paint from photographs, but rather have the model in place. He said he had to capture the essence of the object to be painted, and that can only be performed taking into front modelo.En 1970 had his first exhibition at the New Gallery Staempfli York.Luego Morocco meet and go together with the sculptor Raul Valdivieso, moved to Tangier in 1972, where he bought a three-story mansion of the nineteenth century. There collapsed many of the walls painted white and the other to enhance the Mediterranean light, which is very present in their pinturas.En 2000 donated to the Museo del Prado nineteen the oldest of which Greco-Roman sculptures, dating from the sixth century BC It was precisely on 24 May of that year, after opening the sample donation Claudio Bravo, King Juan Carlos and Sofia imposed the Grand Cross of the Order of Alfonso X the Wise to pintor.A throughout his life had fifty individual EXHIBITIONS and participated in many collective; their works are in the collections of thirty museos.Bravo was homosexual, provided that "no secret in his painting and in his private life." He died in Morocco, heading to the hospital, the June 4, 2011 because of a epileptic seizure that caused two heart attacks, according Tabchich Bashir, right and his partner from 1979.La Taroudant house and museum, where Bravo is buried, was left Tabchich; This son, his godson Rashid, "which raised and loved like a grandson," the painter left him "the residence of Tangier, with its Italian gardens"; "The old house at Medina, which is the heritage of Morocco, donated to exemperatriz Iran, Farah Diba, her good friend"; Finally, "the department of Paris bequeathed it to his friend, assistant and colleague Rafael Cidoncha" realist español.El most notable contemporary Chilean artist Roberto Matta with Bravo was a painter of great wealth and success extrardinario: had four villas in Morocco and an apartment in Manhattan, and in 2004, Sotheby's sold his painting White Package (1967) by more than a million dólares.Bravo "always had intentions of making a museum in Chile with his private collection and personal objects such as sculptures Roman, his works of Andy Warhol, Francis Bacon and Manolo Valdés, ancient Chinese lacquers and Roman glass, Botero sculptures, Rodin, and Vicente Gajardo Benjamin Lira and her fantastic set of contemporary furniture ", said Ana Maria Stagno, director of the Chilean section of Marlborough Gallery. He failed to realize this project, nor to create a foundation in Spain ==== References == External Links == * ClaudioBravo.com Claudio Bravo. Paintings and Drawings * Bravo Exhibition at the Museum of Fine Arts, Santiago, . 1994 are the 62 works exhibited on this occasion; access 19.05.2012 * White Package and dozens other tables have participated in auctions, Mutual Art page; access 19.05.2012 * Exhibition at the Marlborough Gallery, 2013...