Printmaking Club Montevideo Uruguayan cultural institution was a nonprofit dedicated to the production and promotion of printmaking. Created in 1953 in Montevideo, he developed 50 years of activity == The Rise of Printmaking Club Montevideo == thumb |. Right | 350px | Engraving logotipos.El Club Montevideo (CGM) was created in August 1953. the idea came from the encounter in postwar Europe in the 50s, a group of Uruguayan youth trained in Fine Arts and the School of Architecture (University of the Republic). Leonilda González and Nicolás "Cholo" are grouped Loureiro, graduates of Fine Arts, Aida Rodriguez and Beatriz Tosar, both students and architectural painter and printmaker Turiansky.Leonilda Susana González relates that "luck was with us again, because that idea something romantic and apparently very remote designed Paris collectively rent a studio, she dreamed much sooner. "The group is a venue for the workshop on the roof of an old building in Rio Branco street corner July 18 in the city of Montevideo.Habían known Brazilian artists in France who spoke them Bage Group, which had the nucleated artists of that city and of Porto Alegre. It comprised, among others, Carlos Scliar, Glênio Bianchetti, Danúbio Gonçalves, Vasco Prado and Glauco Rodrigues. They advocated the popularization of art facing multiple social and regional issues, and formed with the objective of Bage Clube de Gravura and Clube de Porto Alegre Gravura heavily influenced by the Taller de Grafica Popular mexicano.En April 1953 Leonilda González had attended the Continental Congress of Culture organized by Pablo Neruda in Santiago de Chile, where recorders Rio Grande do Sul made a call to create movements similar to yours. Return to Montevideo with the vision to link art to broader sectors of the population through multiejemplares.El works project is in the hands of Leonilda soon, and she will be the artist who will drive the project and lead institution until his departure into exile in . 1976 the group will actively assist in the realization of the first marketing partners == the independent culture in Uruguay == thumb |. social.En inside the headquarters of the Uruguay world postwar arose a series of institutions cultural nonprofit, which formed a vast movement range plastic, theatrical, musical, editorial and film, and therefore the idea of a Club of Engraving fits perfectly within this independent culture socioclubista Estado.Entre others the Uruguayan Photo Club was founded in 1940, the Uruguayan Federation of Independent Theatres in 1947, the Cinema Club of Uruguay in 1946, the Drama Club, the theatrical institution and University the Warehouse Theater 1949, as well as movies in Uruguay in 1952. they are entities which were typically based on a structure of active members and contributors. In late 1960 the first National Book Fair opens and prints all year-end, an area of extensive contact between cultural producers of all kinds and the public general.El purpose of having a group of partners for activities culture was not only due to a search of economic support, but above all, advocated the construction of a so-called independent national character and culture popular.El partner is treated as contributor and participant: an effective vehicle, like the artist, for a program of cultural alliances with the popular classes. Carlos Fossati, printmaker and theorist militant Etching Club in the initial years, said it was necessary to group the partner and the recorder, create teams, with a shared responsibility that would make long-term plans. In one of the manifestos of the CGM, appeared in 1956, the following mission statement was made: "On the basis of that through the engraving can reach different sections of people, keeping awake his interest in art forms, and that only consubstantiation artist and the public will grow a truly national and popular expression, was created the first Club of Uruguay Engraving. "then the main objective was not the mere transmission of political ideas through image multiple, but the creation of a graphical platform to serve an implementation strategy of what the middle class intellectuals understood as popularize the art, purpose concomitant with the alliance of these sectors with unionized proletariat. == Edition, education, extension = = The print Club of Montevideo edited since its establishment, an engraving on a monthly basis to provide its partners. In August 1953, Susan was responsible Turiansky the preparation of the first edition of one hundred copies were distributed among the, then, 50 members paying an Uruguayan peso monthly. It is a linocut Pescador.Entre known as 1954 and 1959, monthly editions corresponded to a score of writers, including Leonilda González, Susana and Fernando Cabezudo Turiansky. Artists from the same generation as the above, as I long Hernández Ríos, Glauco Capozzoli, Raul Cattelani Cesar Prieto and Ruisdael Suárez.El run of editions reach five hundred by the end of the decade. The partners become 1964.Desde its foundation in 1400 until the mid-60s prevails in the CGM woodblock largely dependent production of social realism in his epigonal forms, with illustrations of urban life or the beginning CGM rural.Desde also faces a political outreach, organizing and / or sponsoring samples of domestic and foreign engravers; in late 1953 and will be presented at the Faculty of Architecture artists gravura clubs Bage and Porto Alegre. In 1954 the Chilean will ESCAMEZ July, and the following year the Argentine artist Abraham Vigo. Etching Club out in 1955 to open in the Plaza Libertad Montevideo sky and presented a year later in Buenos Aires, Mendoza and Rio de Janeiro. In 1958 participates in the exhibition "The Engraving" in the Exhibition Hall of the Montevideo Municipal Subway. The National Book Fair Prints have a stand of CGM from his first first ediciones.Los Etching Club bylaws are discussed since 1961, and at finding an organic organizational form that was modeled and the ideological foundations of the Theatre "The warehouse ". In 1961 he also demolished building Rio Branco and July 18. Carlos Gonzalez and Fossati leonilda marry and move along with the CGM, a street in the San Lorenzo neighborhood of Pocitos. In 1963 he moved back to private dwelling and institution to neighboring apartments on the street May 25 at 581. They work there Printmaking Club Montevideo acquire until 1973 when, after a prolonged economic campaign, subsequent and final sede.Se add up recorders, almost one per year until 1963: List Antonio Carlos Fossati, Lila Lagrotta González, Gloria Carrerou, and in 1964 Famed Gladys, Rita Bialer, and Juan Miguel Bresciano Douat. José Mazzey Cziffery and continue to collaborate on issues and Fernando Cabezudo, Glauco Capozzoli, Raul Cattelani, Ruisdael and Eduardo Suárez Larrarte. With the presence of Bresciano a new generation that will grow in the years 1956 posteriores.Desde who come, even with some previous training courses involved in the technical development of Luis Mazzey starts. Since 1965 the foundation of the School of Engraving Club established a real possibility of participation also for members. Thus socio-taxpayer could become socio-recorder, or both simultaneously. This was a way to implement the ideas in the statements of principles. "Not necessarily consider the artist as a genius, to form the integral as an individual aware of its responsibility and its possibilities, to find organizational forms and economic bases for the joint activity even against adverse conditions such as these, and to give ideological coherence to this action, independent movement appears, now, if as an unprecedented and auspicious. "this program will have an expansive development mandatory for years beginning to experience some important variants after 1956 1970.Desde School of Engraving CGM had begun limited to practical and technical side, but a new curriculum starts in 1965. This stage will from 1967 involving Rimer Cardillo had been a student of Fine Artes.Un Mazzey process change in language and technique begins with the arrival at the institution of many players in a move that boosts the picture in the years 1965 60.En Luis Alberto Solari works with a woodcut, while Adela Caballero and Sergio Octavio San Martín Schmidt first sign a shipment. In 1966 Tina and Delia Pick Borche appear in 1967 does Homero Martinez and Club publishes a recorded Joaquin Aroztegui. In 1968 Hugo added Alíes Domingo Ferreira, and Susan Rimer Cardillo Donut and the following year Luis Pollini.La trade press that deals with the activities of the CGM calls for more sustained quality editions. This position leads to internal competitions with prizes for jurors and recorders alumnos.Entre 1968 and 1969 and a shift towards the dominance of what might be called lyrical figuration, without completely giving up their background, emphasizes produced a poetics of subjectivity with new experimental facilities. Depicted as a distinctive landmark in the articulation of the two periods is Carlos Hugo Alíes Fossatti.Con works, Rimer Cardillo, Mingo Ferreira, Luis Pollini, Nelbia Romero and others, had been gradually introduced both patterns abstract painting as a new configuration. At the same time the woodcut away from being monopolistic to share with tecnos silkscreen, lithography, etching and offset, creating favorable conditions for the expansion of conceptual discipline recorded within the wider area of the arts gráficas.A from 1966 edition calendars will also realizing expressive process and the political and cultural changes. The first one takes the word of an old calendar 1861; the woodcuts are Gloria González Lagrotta Carrerou and Lila, layout and bullets are Adela Knight == CGM crisis in Uruguay == thumb |. facade of the headquarters last CGM.En 1968 Engraving Club had joined public condemnation of the Prompt Security Measures enacted by the repressive government and adheres to boycott the official salons, with the slogan "With Measures Lounge No". monthly editions had begun to address the conflicting national climate and the international situation. The complaint policy is seen in the references to police brutality, the killing of students and the Vietnam War. While the exhibitions, conferences and workshops on labor unions, schools and cultural centers within the country in a process that will be canceled after the coup in Uruguay of 1973.Esta step led to a realignment of the forms of communication and intensify graphic proposals, from radicalization, are adopting more subtle ways of communication and resistencia.En 1971 Etching Club was purchased in downtown Montevideo a house for its new headquarters in the street Paysandú 1233, which was opened on May 4, 1973 with broad support and plural presence of artists and cultural institutions. Aron Vandel In 1972 he was elected Secretary General, a post he held until 1979, when it will be replaced by Oscar Ferrando, entered editions will 1973.Las realizing both the addition of new members (Hilda Ferreira and Nelbia Romero in 1970, Cristina Paiva Ruben and Pepe in 1971, Solomon Azar, Melquiades Jater and Hector Contte in 1976) as well as the solidarity of the continent known figures. In 1973, to mark the twentieth anniversary, Antonio Frasconi works come from the U.S., the Uruguayan Luis Trama also from Mexico, Abel Bruno Versacci from Buenos Aires, Manuela Pinto from Rosario, Argentina, Vasco Prado and Zoravia Bettiol from Porto Alegre and Olga Blinder from Asuncion, Paraguay. In 1976, a linocut of Abel Bruno Versacci editing. In January 1977, Antonio Martorell sent from Puerto Rico woodcuts Saludo.Bajo the auspices of the Italian Embassy and the Italian Cultural Institute, among others, the National Competitions held CGM Graphic Arts from 1974 to 1979. Successive competitions added new support, and monthly editions will be published premiadas.La activity works almost seven years of Rimer Cardillo workshops in intaglio and woodcut, and the incorporation of Oscar Ferrando in the printing workshop led to significant internal changes in the institution. Cardillo led to a general production counter with the editorial context of the Club, and Oscar Ferrando is not only the promoter of the silkscreen technique, the central figure in relation to the organization of workshops and internal administration since 1976 Come in. That year, when Gonzalez and Rimer Cardillo Leonilda had been out for club, school restructuring confirms a trend that will operate simultaneously with the purist logic of graphic design on the one hand, and with the experimental plastic-visual logic of the other . Almanacs CGM remain public success and discuss topics related to the social situation, up to Song with all whose issue is seized by police in the National Book Fair and Engraving 1973.En late 1976 Verso published the almanac to verse, with Uruguayan poets. Manuscript contained a poem without signature on the cover by Oscar Ferrando. The author is not identified as Mario Benedetti, an author censured by many Uruguayans living militar.Mientras dictatorship repression or emigration, CGM keep their doors open as space creation, project discussions and alternative embodiments culturales.Las suffered by the Etching Club after the coup should be seen as a particular fact within the general crisis of the independent cultural field, the more radical step of dismantling took place from 1976, with the deepening of repression and terrorism State at all levels of life from 1974 social.A a program review on the basis of the new political reality marked by censorship, by the impossibility of meeting the continuing threat of coercive measures imposed and the need to cancel many of the commitments that the institution had with secondary education institutes and fields gremiales.En these conditions, the new program CGM survival tended to eliminate what might be called a policy of social outreach and focus on internal issues concerning teaching in workshops and technical experiments, looking to sustain a community of partners decreased with increasing regularity in the monthly edition prints and the inevitable Almanac 1974-1975 año.Hacia to the link between the partner and the institution is presented in terms of how the reverse was originally raised: whether from the 50's recording artist as a kind of visual educator who had to bring his message to the masses is proclaimed; Now this was an artist who had to find answers to both new aesthetic standards as the preferences of an audience and progressively decreased Dam certain cultural estrangement. The gradual decline in the number of partners can be measured through the run of the monthly editions, which in 1974 still remained in the record of four thousand copies, and reached three years earlier, but in 1979 is reduced to two thousand copies and by a gradual decline, barely exceed thousand copies by averaging the decade of the structure 80.La workshops with courses for external students, the editorial production of the monthly pictures and almanacs and Graphic Arts National Competition become the main activities of social bonding generated by the CGM amid harsh repression of the period dictatorial.Los makers workshop will Nelbia Romero by 1980 relief etching, silkscreen Ferrando Oscar and Hector Contte in intaglio and metal. They are joined for a time, drawing courses targeted Salcovsky Ana, color theory by Alicia Asconeguy and Art History by Olga and Gabriel Larnaudie Peluffo.Uno of the significant aspects of the process experienced by the Etching Club in those years is the question of the consolidation of a broader concept of B relative to the secular prestige, not only of the woodcut, but above all, of the original piece, ie, of the serial part with a limited number controlled in each of their own copies by 1981 autor.En three cultural institutions I decide to make an alliance seeking to bolster their chances of social articulation amid an economic crisis. Also at that time the dictatorship appeared somewhat weakened after his first major political defeat the constitutional plebiscite in Uruguay of Montevideo 1980.Club Engraving and movies in Uruguay, which operated as deliberative institutions and cultural diffusion fields on the basis of a structure partner, will join the move to Circular Theatre. This theatrical cast also acted as one of the bastions of the call Uruguayan popular music in times of dictatorship. == CGM in the period of restoration of democracy == The democratic opening led to a significant influx of artists and students to CGM, but otherwise will lead to a radical change in the coordinates within which, since 1974, had registered the activities and workshops. Going falling walls of isolation and self-prompting the current internal structure for more than a decade, a crisis affecting mission design CGM political face of the multiplicity of possibilities that opened in the new stage of the country is produced. since 1986 many of the members of the Club start feeling alternatives requested by social participation, while the institution loses the rationale that had given its primary sense: the deliberative enclave serving a micro resistance groups cultural.Esta sudden weather institutional crisis causes a paradoxical excess possibilities, which in turn causes a depressive episode before making sudden awareness of the shortcomings of sustained organizational model to General Assembly members entonces.La CGM starts function steady from October 1987 to January 1988, discussing the institutional project that would govern future destiny. The fundamental point of disagreement lay in the conceptual limits of artistic activity carried by the CGM. This will be settled in a plebiscite held on January 7, 1988, leading to the resignation of Secretary General and Nelbia Tiscornia Ana Romero, promoting the orientation rejected. Actually there was a successful project and another was defeated, but was a predictable outcome of internal evolution as a crisis without emergency possible solutions. == == The beginning of the end resign in 1990 turn to the General Secretariat and Álvaro Carmens will move away. In 1992 it will Oscar Ferrando, and 1993 Hector Contte renounces and sporadic contributions to the monthly editions. "In the middle of that decade, not so they stay on the artists or teachers who have had relevant role in the 80 institution. About continued performing tasks in that place, not only lacked an ethical-political program in institutional sense, but routinely kept editing prints, and calendars, and performed some courses parallel to what was their primary reason for being: an activity commercial screen printing services whose failure, by 2004, meant the disappearance of the files, the sale of stock of prints and printing instruments, to which was added, moreover, the judicial sale of the building beyond sede.Más individual circumstances and responsibilities involved in the disappearance of the historical legacy of the institution, the end comes to register, inexorably, not only in a decline and transformation of classical socioclubista culture, but in the overall context of a critical cultural field balkanized, threatened by large and small corruptions, deeply affected by the transformations imposed the neoliberal logic whose results were felt, dramatically, from the first decade of the new century. "== See also == * == References == Engraving Bibliography == * == Esteban García, Fernando (1975). Draughtsmen and engravers of Uruguay. Buenos Aires, Latin American Center Editor * Gonzalez Leonilda (1994). This is me. Montevideo: Production Graphics * Rocca, Paul Thiago (and others) (2007). Leonilda González: Figari 2006 Award Montevideo. Central Bank of Uruguay. * Tiscornia, Ana (and others) (2011). Etching Club of Montevideo. Cultural Center of Spain in Montevideo. ISBN 978-9974-8264-9-6 [http://palaciodurazno.com/cgm/libro.zip] == External Links == * prints monthly edited by CGM [http://palaciodurazno.com/cgm/archivo/ ]...