thumb | 300px | Solís Theatre, home of the National Comedy, held in 2007 at 60 years of the founding of the company teatral.La National Comedy Theatre is the stable cast of the Municipality of Montevideo, Uruguay == History == The need. an official cast of theater was a concern of all linked to national culture. In 1942 a National Comedy and National School of Drama in the field of SODRE was founded. Participated in its efforts to undertake the authors, the Standing Committee of the First Congress of the River Plate Theatre and Teatro Municipal Commission. The director of this company was the first Peruvian Carlos Calderón de la Barca. In 1943 became State Theatre with a team of Uruguayan and Spanish actors under the direction of 1947 Angel Curotto Xirgu.En Margarita and Jose P. Blixen, who in 1937 had formed the National Comedy Company cast, they won the support of Justin Zavala Muniz, playwright and politician of great influence in the Colorado Party to actually convert the project to create a theater company estatal.Zavala Muniz won the interest of the newly elected mayor of Montevideo, Andrés Martínez Trueba who, on 21 April 1947, decreed the formation of the Committee chaired by Municipal Theatres Justino Zavala Muniz and resolved that the company would provide its future shows at the Teatro Solís, who in 1937 had been acquired by the Municipality of Montevideo.La Commission appointed Angel Curotto as General Manager, who rescued an old project for the consideration of the Uruguayan Society Actors (SUA), the Critics Circle and the General Association of Authors of Uruguay (AGADU). It was decided to carry out a broad call to all artists interested in the subject. One dealing with jury duty for selecting future members of the comedy and one that should make the repertoire of works to represent: On May 23, more than 150 artists in the Sala Verdi, where the creation of two committees approved met compañía.En very short time by the two commissions were issued and rehearsals began. The first work chosen was The Lion blind, written in 1911 by Ernesto Herrera. The funds that had covered the budget two months and, therefore, was to get public support. Much of the costumes and scenery was provided by friendly people. Carlos Brussa donated part of the costume, others got furniture, Zavala Muniz facilitated family memories, as the launch of his grandfather, General Justino Muniz, Alberto Candeau would look on stage. In this climate the premiere, which would be October 2, 1947 was prepared. Tickets for the audience costing 50 cents and sold out three days before.The founder of the National Comedy cast consisted of Flor de Maria Bonino, Carmen Castell, Martha Castellanos, Zelmira Daguerre, Mora Galián, Cotina Jimenez, Mary Marchissio, Rosita Miranda, Elsa Ubal Romulo Boni, Alberto Candeau Hector Coure, Guarnero Enrique Guzman Martinez Mieres, Carlos Muñoz, Miguel Moya, Ramón Otero and Horacio Preve.Carlos Calderon de la Barca was appointed stage manager. He served until 1949, when he died. In his appointment could have influenced their knowledge with Zavala Muniz, when he led the National Comedy frustrated SODRE 1942. Had he started his career as a pointer. Then he married actress Carmen Casnell. He was known in the Uruguayan theater through the thirties and as director of the Company Casnell-Arrieta. Zavala Muniz and the first committee of directors sought prestige in Buenos Aires who did not accept the lack of big names in the cast. Calderon went almost all the works of authors who offered the Uruguayan National Comedy in its early years. == References == * Far away and long ago ... The National Comedy == External links == * National Comedy