Daniel Hendler (born 3 January 1976 in Montevideo) is an American actor of film, theater and television Uruguayan mostly developed his career in Argentina, where he lives. He is known for his starring roles in such films as The seabed, Suicide, Paranoid, my first wedding and Embrace director Daniel Burman, with whom he worked on several oportunidades.Trabajando on both sides of the Río de la Plata, won international awards thanks to its consideration as an actor. Won the Silver Bear Award at the Berlin Film Festival in 2004 for her performance in Lost Embrace. In 2012, he starred in the series Graduate Goddzer Andy playing, role that made him popular on television and for which he received the Martin Fierro.Hendler Tato and prizes form part of the generation of actors who revitalized the Uruguayan cinema with films like 25 Watts and is one of the players called new Argentine Cinema. He wrote and directed several short films; his first feature film as a director was just late Norberto (2010). == Early life == Born in Montevideo in 1976, grew up in the neighborhood Hendler Diving and also lived in Pocitos and lace. He grew up in a family of Jewish origin; merchant father and son amateur theater mother. During his youth, Hendler used to play basketball and football in Hebrew. He attended primary school Comprehensive School; about that time Hendler says: "I studied at a Jewish school and I feel that also went through a stage where I wanted to get away from the environment, to better discern my surroundings, what I wanted to choose and I did not want to choose that set of values. "Uncharacteristically, he had two Bar Mitzvah ceremonies, because their parents were separated since he was five years old. Although he is Jewish, is not religious or believe in God. With 13 years attended some classes pantomime, but left due to lack of interest. At age 14 he started doing theater, along with some friends, and made his first acting workshop in the theater "The Seagull." In 1994 he began training in acting. With a group of friends founded the theater group "were 522 Hogs," a sort of inside joke and pun on the place where the bus line stop in his hometown. Were presented in the "Contest of young theater Montevideo" they racing around a hundred plays, and won; said Hendler: "From then made five more works, three of which we wrote and directed, other directed a friend and the other Leo Masliah, which is as a friend of the group" During his time at "Hogs 522". was linked with musician and writer Leo Masliah who did a writing workshop, I adapted one of his stories and was addressed in the work of Abulimia theater. In 1996 he met Pablo Stoll and Juan Pablo Rebella a course in script and soon after, during a weekend, he recorded the Victor shorts and elected and 31 December. Despite his work with "522 Hogs" and short films, Hendler later confessed: "I dared not to be an actor, especially living in Montevideo, where there is not much reference exclusively live actors performance"; as a result, he entered the Faculty of Architecture, leaving acting career second plano.La Hendler spent almost six years in the Faculty of Architecture (coming to finish fifth practical), plus many other theater training. He was assistant professor and head of drama at the Catholic University of Montevideo; when in charge of the class, some resorted to acting. First he wanted to be an actor, then musician (he studied guitar for several years), also an architect, but finally decided on acting. One of his first theatrical experience, with 20 years old, was in Breaking codes by Robert Jones. == ===== First Race acting roles and accolades === His first feature film was Waiting for the Messiah (2000), Argentina film where Hendler plays Ariel, a young Jew who does not identify with this religion and who meets a tramp who befriends. For his performance as the lead in Waiting for the Messiah, Hendler won the best actor awards presented by the Association of Critics and Awards Montevideo Clarín.En 2001 earned the distinction as best actor for the Uruguayan film 25 Watts at the International Festival Independent Cinema of Buenos Aires. "was a very cute, perhaps the cutest of all, but what is not meant in my career, perhaps nothing prize what meant a lot was the film, having worked on 25 watts was important for my career and for me, "said Hendler. At 25 Watts, Hendler plays a young man of a quiet neighborhood in the city of Montevideo wandering without a clear direction at the same time you have to study for a test of Italian and is attracted to her tutor. Her character, "Milk", was inspired by one of the directors of the film, Juan Pablo Rebella. Filmed in 2000 with a very low budget, the film revitalized the Uruguayan film and helped by the awards received in Europe (Best Film Festival Rotterdam) marked the beginning of one new stage in the film there. Nearly ten years after its premiere, Hendler said in an interview. "Was a novelty to see a Uruguayan film that had not any mate, the Palacio Salvo and the promenade as a justification for being, was a story of neighborhood kids" In the same time as 25 Watts, Hendler also served in the Mexican short film the Eye in the neck and Sunday. In the first, filmed in Uruguay by Rodrigo Pla, Hendler plays the cousin and arms supplier of the protagonist, played by a then unknown Gael García Bernal. Sabbath was directed by Juan Villegas and tells the story of six young bored on a Saturday in Buenos Aires, including the character played by Hendler.Si well had already starred in several short and feature films, became known in the Buenos Aires soil announcements Telefónica in 2002, playing Walter, a character for which he would be recognized for several years after. Later, in 2004, won the Silver Bear for Best Actor at the International Berlin Film Festival for his work on Lost Embrace, beating in the same category with stars like Tommy Lee Jones, Samuel L. Jackson , Robin Williams and Ethan Hawke. Actress Frances McDormand, president of the jury in Berlin, Hendler personally congratulated for their work. The award would have a major impact on his career. "From then I started doing more interviews and got me to do, but not necessarily better I think the most important thing was to feel recognized," said Hendler years later. That same year he won the award for Best Performance at the Latin American Film Festival of Lleida by The seabed. In the bottom of the sea (2003), Hendler plays a paranoid architecture student Chasing psychoanalyst girlfriend (Dolores Fonzi) suspected that deceives === Collaborations with Daniel Burman. Trilogy Hendler is Ariel === a regular actor in productions of director Daniel Burman. Apart from his brief participation in Every Stewardess Goes to Heaven (they playing a cabbie), worked on Waiting for the Messiah (2000), El abrazo partido (2004) and Family Law (2005). In these three films the characters are called "Ariel" and is known as "Ariel trilogy." The character is considered the alter ego Burman; this is most noticeable in Embrace where Hendler plays a young Jew who investigates his Polish ancestry to get the passport and emigrate to Europe, as did the director in real life. On the subject, Hendler said "I do not feel Burman alter ego." Burman and Hendler met in 1998 when the first Uruguayan ran theaters with director Marco Bechis looking for an actor to Garage Olimpo. They went to the theater the Circular to watch the actor Walter Reyno and in the same work, entitled Amateur, observed Hendler play "the bird", and later did a casting in a bar with a digital camera, Burman making Jewish and Hendler Nazi. Finally not get the paper to Garage Olimpo, but months later Burman would call for Waiting for the Messiah. Waiting for the Messiah was a key film for the subsequent development of his career, he tried his first film in Argentina and which allowed him to begin living the performance. === Later career and foray into television === In 2008 paranoid where Hendler personifies Luciano Gauna, a hermit and repressed character that encourages kids parties based film director, Gabriel Medina, whom he met during the filming Hendler of the seabed was released. The critic Stephen Holden of The New York Times wrote: "Despite all his exasperating neurotic self-sabotage, Mr. Hendler makes a lovable loser Luciano which you support to be exceeded" while boxoffice.com wrote: "Hendler captures the focus of Luciano anxiety: fear of success "Although I had previously had minor guest roles on Epitaphs (2004), No Code (2004) and killer Women (2008), had never been part of the regular cast. a series. In 2008 he joined the ensemble cast of the series no one living here, playing a lazy goalie named Roman. "I came wanting to encourage me to do television and, as time went on, not having traveled that road increasingly weighed me," Hendler said in an interview for the newspaper Clarín. He also noted that one of the reasons why he chose to be part of Here no one alive was because he felt that their decisions when choosing their roles were becoming "predictable". Hendler was to be the star of For a while, feature debut as writer and director Gustavo Garzón (co-star of the sea floor). Due to lack of time, Hendler was responsible only co-produce the film, which also has as an actress Ana Katz. For a time is a co-production between Argentina and Uruguay (Lace Films) In addition to acting in film and television, Hendler is also a stage actor. "That's where I think I'm most comfortable, where I feel that one is . real actor in television and film, one that is playing actor, but theater one is there, with all their instruments, "said === Success on television. Graduates === in 2012, Hendler Stars Graduate sitcom, along with Nancy Dupláa. Hendler plays Andy, a dog walker 38 year old who lives with his parents and resists the passage of time, with fun as the main aim in life. The series is set in the present and has flashbacks to the '80s on the Hendler proposal said. "Loved it, because he is very careful, scripts and each instance it is very elegant It is a pleasure, especially by fear it meant to me to be in a daily strip. "Before you start recording, Hendler went down the street twice a week with a dog walker. The general producer Graduate, Culell Paul said: "It's important because we need to train Daniel credible that he takes the dogs, the dogs are not dragging him has to learn to stop and encourage animals, to remove and return them to their owners a credible way. "On his co-star, Dupláa said: "Daniel is a very atypical heartthrob is taking a different body.". Graduate transmitted by telefe, debuted in March 2012 to lead the audience level and continued to be the most watched television that year. The success and high ratings gave Hendler, low profile, greater popularidad.En November 2012, Hendler won the Best Actor Award Tato fiction for Graduates. In the same category were nominated Luciano Castro, Diego Peretti, Leonardo Sbaraglia and his co-star in Graduates, Luciano Cáceres. Hendler addition to individual recognition, the series was the big winner at the Awards Tato taking another nine Oscars, including best program of the year and best daily fiction. In 2013 he won the Martin Fierro Award for Best Actor in a novel; Graduates had the highest awards took. === New projects in film and return to theater === In 2012, was playing another alter ego of Daniel Burman on Luck in your hands, but the role ended being played by Uruguayan musician Jorge Drexler.Más Hendler later revealed in an interview that Burman presented a new project to be filmed in mid-2013. "If the character is not Jewish I accept without reading the script," Hendler said to Burman. "It became something weird. After we met, I raised the idea, gave me no ball theme that was not Jewish, but just could not say no." In 2012, Hendler was chosen by the director Ariel Winograd to star police comedy came to steal, with Valeria Bertuccelli. The film was released in August 2013. Shot in Mendoza, the film tells the story of Natalia and Sebastian, natural enemies, who must plan and carry out the theft of a valuable bottle of wine from 1850 stored in a bank vault Mendoza. Came to steal was the first action film Hendler.En July 2013, Hendler returned to theater director Ciro Zorzoli hand in the work of Harold Pinter's Betrayal. With actress Paola Krum, premiered at the Stables Theatre and was presented in Montevideo in December. Thus, Hendler theater returned to their home country after eleven years.For 2014, is scheduled to participate in a miniseries starring alien theme directed by Gabriel Medina, with whom he worked on Paranoid. == As director = = Hendler directed from the beginning of his acting career. In 1996, the "Hogs 522" group, wrote and directed the Crime and Colds (where he also performed), and The Magnificent Playback works. Crimes and Colds Cutcsa won the award at the 13th Young theater sign, a special distinction to the text and Plastic proposal. That same year, made the short film on December 31 and subsequently wrote and would direct the short January 6 (2001), Stray Dog (2002) and Four hour (2004). His first feature as director and writer was Norberto's later (2010 ), about a shy and jobless seller called Norberto studying acting beginning to gain confidence. He had previously collaborated on the script of The Empty Nest (2008) by director Daniel Burman. Norberto's afternoon was filmed in Uruguay and produced by both countries of the Rio de la Plata: "The team I chose is my dream team, it is the people that I dreamed to work beyond their nationality, and proved to be a very mixed team, Uruguayans and Argentines mixture, "Hendler said. I had never studied before filmmaking on this comment. "Is often part of the assumption that the problem of the film is in the know but technical rules are as quick to learn and is the least you served Experience in the use of certain resources is what gives you possible solutions or shortcuts in time to see solved on the screen what you imagined. much more knowledge tenés easier llegás but 'truths' about film technique are as easy to solve as director. were things I already knew how to do and others do not know because you end up having to do with what you're looking at each film. "Around the year 2003, Hendler had begun writing a choral story called The day ends at 10, dismissed the story and kept the characters for another ensemble film, The move, which included a character named Norberto which began to be increasingly prominence, until the story became just Norberto later. Norberto was only later the first draft Lace Films, production company created by Hendler and Uruguayan producer Michele Solé.En 2012 he said in an interview that he was writing The Palomar, a comedy-thriller politician. == Personal life == Hendler married since 2007 Argentina film director Ana Katz. The February 23, 2008, the couple had their first child, whom they named Helena, name chosen simply because he liked the couple and not by Helen of Troy as erroneously published some fuentes.En 2011, their second child was born, Raimundo Hendler.Dejó Montevideo to settle in Buenos Aires by Ana Katz. Hendler said... "Was a process that took place in a little but not much that I started feeling more comfortable ago What happens is that the difficulty of change is real, I initially missed and idealized all to which to I just started to enjoy living here and go beyond Aires once a month. "He divides his time between Centennial Park (in the neighborhood of Caballito) and Montevideo. No Argentine nationalized. He has two brothers. Federico and Matthew, the second is a musician and actor Style == == influences have often been identified characteristics that are repeated in several of his characters, talking of "Hendler style." Some of the characters go through processes of search for identity, undergo maturation or are unsafe. On more than one occasion, he has also played the alter ego of the directors, as on 25 Watts (Juan Pablo Rebella), El abrazo partido (Daniel Burman), Paranoid (Gabriel Medina) and My First Wedding (Ariel Winograd); regarding the issue Hendler said, "I do not know if you will do with some personal characteristic that directors see in me or that I like more 'personal' projects, to call in some way." To choose the projects that are involved, Hendler is based on intuition and empathy with the principal. To build the paper and connect with the project, looking for references related to the story and the character. Also try not to rehearse or memorize the text before meeting the rest of the actors. "It is inevitable to take certain paths and directors convened because you want to pick up on something you saw in your previous jobs. Then it is logical that actors adopt certain profiles," said Hendler on the commonalities between their personajes.Hendler is fan John Cassavetes and Jean-Pierre Léaud. He is also fond of Abbas Kiarostami, Werner Herzog, Eric Romer, Christopher Guest and Nanni Moretti. As a child, his influences were Rocky and Rambo, I used to play scenes from those movies, and also played Flash Gordon. At age 15 he began to see films of Woody Allen, a reference to Hendler. According to him, Allen and Ingmar Bergman did "appreciate the film." As mentioned Uruguayan concerning Robert Jones, Roberto Fontana, Walter Reyno, Jorge Bolani, Pablo Stoll and Juan Pablo Rebella. He also mentioned his love of Jean-Paul Belmondo and Marcello Mastroianni actors. As literary influences, Hendler mentioned books like The End show Joseph (1987) and Woman wolf strikes again (1992) Leo Masliah, The Seagull (1896) by Anton Chekhov and the work of Peter Brook. == Filmography == As a film actor === ====== As TV actor ====== ====== As director and screenwriter As actor ===== Awards == * Martin Fierro Awards (2013) - Best Actor in 2012 for Graduate novel * Tato Awards (2012) - Best Actor of fiction Graduates * International Film Festival of Mexico City (2011) - Best screenplay by Norberto just Morosoli later * (2010) Award - Silver Morosoli under "Image in Motion" * International Film Festival of San Sebastian (2009) - TVE Award for Norberto's late * Festival of Lima (2009) - Best Actor for the paranoid * International Film Festival Latinoamericano de Biarritz (2008) - Best Actor for the paranoid * Film Meetings Touluse 2004 - Tribute * International Berlin Film Festival (2004) - Silver Bear for best Actor for the match * Lleida Latin-American Film Festival hug (2004 ) - Best Actor for the bottom of the Sea * critics Association of Uruguay (2001) - Best Actor for 25 Watts * Buenos Aires International Independent Film Festival (2001) - Best Actor for 25 Watts * critics of Montevideo (2000) - Actor for Waiting for the Messiah * Clarín Awards (2000) - Actor for Waiting for the Messiah * Morosoli (2000) Award - Morosoli Silver for his theatrical work in Uruguay * Cutcsa Award at the 13th sign Young Theatre (1996) - special awards to text and Plastic Crime and Colds given by == References ==== external links == ** Daniel Hendler cinenacional.com * Interview with Daniel Hendler jai.com.uy (2003) *