Enrique Mrak (Montevideo, November 10, 1950) is a specialist in cultural management, journalist, actor, university professor and researcher on issues of twentieth century history. == Biography == Multidisciplinary Graduate School of Dramatic Arts in Montevideo 'Margarita Xirgu »EMAD, he received a scholarship to continue studies at several American universities. In the "Xavier University of Louisiana," the "California Institute of the Arts" (Valencia, California) and USIS (Washington DC), where he majored in Cultural Management. On his return in 1972 projected, he founded and directed the Alliance Theatre and the Art Gallery of the Alliance (Alianza Cultural Uruguay-USA, Montevideo), where programmed, developed, created and managed over 1,800 different programs comprising plays, exhibitions art and design, music recitals, film festivals, television and publishing projects (Ediciones Alliance). Together with his former teacher at EMAD, Elena Zuasti, founded there the Theatre Workshop legendary names that emerged fundamental current Uruguayan theater and they mark a huge step change in creativity and theatrical scene país.Como actor starred in Godspell , Voltaire's Candide and the world premiere of James Pater Noster Langsner, among other obras.En 1984 left the theater to devote himself exclusively to radio and television journalism. In 1990 Uruguay was the first selected to join the International Professional Program (IPP) of CNN's graduating and who linked continued until 2005 as Instructor / Lecturer at the headquarters in Atlanta. In September 1994 he received a master's degree by the "Bridgewater State University" (Massachusetts). From 1982-2004 he joined the news team from Radio Sarandi of Montevideo from 1996 to 2004 where he directed and led the evening news without hearing Shames leader in its horario.Ha made documentaries, special programs and live broadcasts from places as diverse as Taiwan, Cuba, Hong Kong, New York, San Francisco, Greece, Egypt, Rio de Janeiro, Venice, Florence, Hawaii, London and Paris. In his journalistic career he has interviewed world figures such as Ted Turner, Jimmy Carter, Carlos Fuentes, Rigoberta Menchú, Mikhail Gorbachev, Jacques Cousteau, Jane Fonda, Bono, Mario Vargas Llosa, José Ramos-Horta and Andrés Pastrana and the almost all the members of the cultural, social and political environments Uruguayans. === === Academy Television was a professor at the Catholic University of Uruguay (UCUDAL) between 1992 and 2003. has taught freelance journalism and communication techniques (Italian Ministry of Labour, 2002). assumed in October 2003 as Director of the Department of Academic Activities of the Cultural Center of Spain dependent Spain Embassy in Montevideo, a position he accessed through competition and méritos.En October 2011 was appointed Director of Cultural Action Center itself, supervising from this position you were before areas: Academic, Educational and special Programs (. afro, sexual diversity, etc.) In January 2005 he was invited by the State Department again United States, this time for a series of informational meetings with the management teams of the Museum of Modern Art in New York, the New York Public Library and the Metropolitan Museum of Arte.Desde 2005 to present a grant from the CULTURE / BA program of the Government autonomous City of Buenos Aires (Argentina)-competitive examination and merit-work for the realization of recent historical research Argentina: Eva Duarte de Perón.Desde Project 2010 is a visiting professor at the Faculty of Humanities and Education (University of the Republic) in the Department of Contemporary History. === === Press television in March 2005 he was summoned by the direction of search to integrate cultural columnist for the weekly highest circulation of Montevideo topics task developed until 2009. from 2009 to the present, write research articles in the Journal Gallery (search), mainly on characters montevideano.En past July 2005 is convened by the Department of City TV (Montevideo) to drive the original production "OtrosMUNDOS" a series of programs broadcast on the channel that is produced for four seasons and then issued until 2011, with interviews Uruguayans who have been working in unusual places around the planet. In February 2006, the program began airing on National Television Uruguay to the entire territory uruguayo.En November 2006 he was again summoned by City TV (Montevideo) for driving and production (with Melina Sícalos this) a new original program "OtrosTIEMPOS" about Uruguayan history since 1939 Megafauna emitting from May 2007 for that channel, and Multichannel National Television TNU the whole Uruguay.Desde September 2013 writes in his personal blog that publishes columns appeared in the search weekly between 2005 and 2010 and new articles on cultural and social issues. == Awards == * in 1976 received the "Oriental Merit" for Best cultural Management of the year by the East cultural Association. * in 1992 he received the "Tabaré" La República of Uruguay for best international cultural series for "the Bolshoi in Rome" 3 programs edited, and presented guionó on the actions of famous ballet group in Italy. * prize in 2001 won the Iris of the year the figure given by the radio daily El Pais. * in 2001 he received the "Order book" by distributing books and authors Uruguayan by the Uruguayan Book Chamber. * in September 2003, received the Award "Wings" in two categories. Cultural Journalism and Management awarded by the Cultural Association INTER-ART sponsored by the Ministry of Education and Culture of Uruguay and the Organization of American States / OAS * in November 2003 he was awarded the prize "Morosoli Silver "for his career in Radio Journalism by Lolita Rubial (Minas, Lavalleja, Uruguay) with the sponsorship and support of the UNESCO Chair in Communication at the Catholic University of Uruguay and the Association of Public Universities of Mercosur Foundation. * in May 2008 he was awarded the "Oriental Merit" for Best Television Cultural program 2007 at the Legislative Palace in Montevideo ==== References == Source == ** New Dictionary of Uruguayan culture, Michelangelo Campodónico. - Ed.Linardi and Risso 2003 ISBN 9974-559-31-6 * Dictionary of Uruguayan culture, Michelangelo Campodónico collaboration with Montañéz Macarena - Ed.Linardi and Risso 2007 ISBN 978-9974-675-00-1