Estela Medina (1932, Montevideo, Uruguay) is a Uruguayan prestigious theater actress. He was awarded the prize Florencio nine times, the last being the "Florencio de Oro" to the path in 2000.De versatility is highlighted in repertory theater, especially in the classic Spanish theater. == Biography == Medina raised in Montevideo and as a teenager, he joined the School of Dramatic Art Multidisciplinary Xirgú Margarita. It was part of the first generation, along with China Zorrilla, Taco Larreta, among others. He graduated from the center, debuted in 1950 being his first works in Romeo and Juliet and a small role in Orfeo Molina.En 1952 Denis Charles enters the Uruguay National Comedy, official list of that country. Among his most memorable works include: The Cherry Orchard by Anton Chekhov, Cardinal Henry of Spain Montherlant, Fuenteovejuna, Ibsen's A Doll's House, La dama boba, Maria Stuart (1968) Schiller, The Shoemaker's Prodigious of Federico García Lorca, Sophocles' Electra (1984), the Barranco (1993), Oedipus the King by Sophocles, the Road to Mecca (1999), Three tall Women by Edward Albee, Mephisto Ariane Mnouschkine, Molière's Tartuffe Quartet Heiner Müller, the Presidents of Werner Schwab, La Dorotea de Lope de Vega, the Murder of Frank Markus nurse George, Harold ash Pinter.Con solo performance Altarpiece of life and death toured Spain and the United Unidos.Ha worked under the Eduardo Schinca address, Atahualpa Cioppo, Otermin Sergio, Mario Morgan, Mariana Percovich and Levon, among otros.Después 57 years of artistic activity, in 2008, withdrew from the Uruguayan National Comedy with blood Wedding by Federico Garcia Lorca, work with which had debuted in company with Margarita Xirgú and China Zorrilla. However, it remains to their profession. In January 2009, returns to the Teatro Solís as The English Lover by Marguerite Duras. That same year he premiered the sole Rose, under the direction of Mario Morgan is back and acclaimed crítica.Desde March 2009 is Academic Number of the National Academy of Arts Uruguay.En 2011, starring Autumn Sonata, Bergman, under the leadership of Omar Varela. In parallel, he moved to Buenos Aires, where he stars Secret Ceremony, inspired by the novel by Argentine writer Marco Denevi work. The following year premiered Circle Three, with actor Robert Fontana. In 2013 resets, with Levon Quartet, H. Miller. == == Awards and honors In 2003 he received the Award for a Lifetime of Dedication to the Performing Arts, awarded by the International Hispanic Theatre Festival of the Miami.En 2004 was declared Citizen of Montevideo.The April 30, 2010 received the Order of Isabella the Catholic from King Juan Carlos, for dissemination of Spanish classics is eminent interpreter. In honor of the Cultural Center of Spain in Montevideo Uruguay honored actress, naming his audience. Room Medina.En Estela November 2011 received the Konex Mercosur Award Show for his outstanding work in the activity over the past decade in Latin America = = References ==== external links == * Gran Dama del Teatro....