thumb | 335px | Film Projector 35mm Kalee. Used from 1944 to 1971 in the Auditorium Studio functions Sodre Art and Film Festival Documentary and Experimental Film. Exposed in the current lobby of Auditorium Auditorio.El Sodre Study was a complex of theaters belonging to SODRE worked for forty years (1931-1971) at the Teatro Urquiza in downtown Montevideo. The intense activity Urquiza Theatre - Studio Theater, during sixty-seven years had been proud of the cultural activities in the Río de la Plata, was interrupted on September 18, 1971 when a fire forced the closure of wards. After almost forty years, on Saturday November 21, 2009 the old Urquiza Theatre - Studio Theater reopened its doors under the new name of "Dr. Adela Reta National Auditorium" == Teatro Urquiza (1905-1931). == the Teatro Urquiza, which was located on the northwest corner of Andes and Mercedes, is named after the name of its owner, the Argentine Dr. Justo G. de Urquiza. The building meant a job about two years (1903-1905) and William West will work in collaboration with the architect Horacio Acosta and Lara.Los views agree in that corner of the Andes and Mercedes and was previously the Urquiza corner of theaters, while "confusing sequence of names we have detected for the Andes and primitive living Mercedes and do not know, for sure, if there existed more than one theater before the" Urquiza ". While there Curotto notes the existence of the "Alhambra", "East", the "Follies Bergere Oriental" "the latter an attempt to emulate that montevideano finisecular Paris vaudeville and can can" Alfredo Castellanos, in his "History edilicia Montevideo "states in that place and at the same time the existence of a theater" Oriental Politeama '"(p. 65). And the "Oriental Politeama" there are those who identify it with the "Summer Theatre", located on the corner around 1900.Su inauguration was due on August 25, 1905, and then with the classical opera season in August, which each year had the presence in the capital of the greatest figures in world poetry. Not to be finalized the last details of the new building, with its great lyrical gala of the 25th season Solis had met at the theater. And it was a season in which Giacomo Puccini himself directed his opera 'Manon', played-nothing more and nothing less-that the great soprano Maria Barrientos. Work finished, the opening of the theater Urquiza was fulfilled with honor, the night of the 5th of September and the first work performed on its stage was' La Sorciere ('The Enchantress') drama in five acts by Victorien Sardou, of the Académie française, and announced the City press; work that the great French Sarah Bernhardt had premiered tragic in their own theater on December 14, 1903 and had become one of his greatest triumphs personales.En official classic opera season in August saw the scene of what Urquiza was considered a miracle in the history of the genre, as was the joint action of the greatest divas of then in the interpretation of "I pagliacci" by Leoncavallo. tenor Enrico Caruso and Titta Ruffo baritone "the inauguration Urquiza were the times that he lived his Montevideo 'belle epoque' and Acosta y Lara had first incorporated the 'art nouveau' to the capital's theater architecture, a fact that will be repeated later, although most impure style in the facade Theatre July 18. The Urquiza wearing his grand facade to two floors, 'chamfer' on the Mercedes-Andes corner. This was topped by a double pediment resting on two side pilasters and two columns in the middle, forming a light sunroom overlooking the "hall" ... (p. 112) == Sodre Auditorium Study (1931-1971) == with the creation of the Official Electrical Radio Broadcasting Service (SODRE), by law 8,557 of December 18, 1929, the Teatro Urquiza became Sodre Auditorium Study in 1931 and the Sodre had taken over their premises. A study worked there (auditorium, with capacity for nearly a thousand people in two plants), B (small orchestras) and C (nightclub). In the second half of the first year, took place in the Auditorium features 223 studio, attended by 159,000 espectadores.En his message to the General Assembly proposing the creation of Sodre, the Executive highlighted the importance that it had acquired "element that modern science has made (...) available "nations" to take notes of art and culture (...) to the sections of country homes. "Hence the need for a service "information and national culture." So then, the law of 1929, the then Official Electric Radio Broadcasting Service (Sodre) should "perifonear cultural and informational programs," and the law that created it also created a symphony orchestra, a chamber choir, a body of dance halls, an audio library and other departments. Like those cultural goods and information that the radio broadcast was not abundant, the law also instructed the Sodre, "well", "create schools and conservatories", "acquire and lease phonograph, theatrical, cinematic, musical or other printed material that relating to its activities, programs and use them to be acquired with the corresponding files "," edit catalogs, programs or other publications "," hire staff to carry out all its obligations, and especially so act individually or in sets in shows or auditions to perform or contribute to perform as well as in schools or conservatories instituting "relate and agree with national or international public or private institutions ... Even" establish, organize, direct, or encourage institutions dedicated to associate . efforts to support, defend and disseminate the work of culture that can perform "and to" seek through institutions or persons moral and material support of the population "the Sodre now has four stable bodies: Symphony Orchestra, Ensemble Chamber Music Choir and Corps de Ballet, which the National School of Lyric Art joined the National School of Dance, three radio stations on medium wave, short wave two and five FM. Museum has a Word-file the first speaker of the country that holds recordings of intellectuals, personalities from art, culture, society, politics, and a National Archive of the image that, in addition to preserving a valuable historical heritage , produces and showcases films and videos. Until 2002 he was responsible for a television station in Montevideo (Channel 5) and 18 repeaters in the rest of the country. This year Channel 5 became an independent Implementation Unit within the Ministry of Education and Culture. In the auditorium, the Studio Theater, also worked the Musical Archive, the largest in South America until he lost much of his scores in the fire of September 18, 1971. == Dr. Adela Reta National Auditorium (2009 to present) ===== History === In 1985, once restored democracy, the new government began planning reconstruction Studio Auditorium. To this end an honorary commission comprising representatives of the Municipality of Montevideo, the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC), the Ministry of Transport and Public Works committee and Sodre.Esta took almost a year to resolve the place was created where going to be the new building and finally decided in late 1985 to keep the previous location, ie where they were formerly the Studio Theater and the houses running radio Sodre. For this we had to buy some adjacent land, and looking to the surface requiring a project of this naturaleza.Una time taken this decision, convened an advisory committee to develop the basis for a draft national competition. To form this commission led by then-MEC Dr. Adela Reta-requested the Society of Architects of Uruguay (SAU) to make a selection, a process that led to the nomination of the architects José Scheps and Rafael Lorente (child); is also added Professor Carlos Carvalho on behalf of Sodre.Fueron these professionals who were in charge of drafting the bidding documents in consultation with stable bodies of Sodre, to expressions of other artists joined national call to destacados.El public tender and had a national character, taking place in September 1986, and included the participation of 51 contestants. In February 1987, the jury, composed of architects Clorindo Testa (by MEC), Mariano Arana (by SAU) and Antonio Cravotto (for contestants), unanimously elected the project composed of Jorge di Pólito study Diego Magnone Isidore Singer and Juan Carlos Vanini. The preliminary draft of the successful study insumió 10 months. Then came the final design stage, where he worked on and working drawings, and finally the budgeting phase. In May 1988 it became the international call for tender for the construction of the complex, which won the signing Álvaro Palenga SA.Una time the construction company of choice, the November 15, 1989 the contract was signed and work began, few days before the national elections that year, and on the end of the first term of former President Julio Maria Sanguinetti be held. There was talk of a cultural complex of 25,000 square meters which included three theaters, rehearsal rooms their for musicians, for the choir, for the Corps de Ballet; were also provided spaces for the production of scenery and paint shops, shoe and peluquería.En 1990 the process of building the new auditorium Sodre lost vigor. Until that time he had made little progress, had barely made the excavation and part of the structure. In 1995 the project Sodre regained some vigor he had lost in previous years and in 1999 the hall C of the complex, called Hugo Balzo was inaugurated. Further works were well advanced of dressing and rehearsal rooms. In 2001 a small capital injection was performed with the aim of presenting the opera Aida in the main room, called Eduardo Fabini.Para that occasion had to the enclosure of the audience, what technicians call "rustic enclosure." This means that, according to the architects responsible for the project, the space where the presentation was made Aida did not differ much in their conditions of a basketball stadium: missing all terminations, people were sitting on concrete bleachers, chairs temporary that had been rented. However, despite these limitations, this instance allowed at least close the building and finish the facade, roof and losa.En 2006 was given a new impetus to the work, after the Secretariat General Iberoamericana, to by Enrique Iglesias, commit funds for completion. Finally on November 21, 2009 it was officially reopened by renaming Studio Auditorium National Auditorium Dr. Adela Reta. The opening concert was attended by the National Symphony Orchestra and Choir under the direction of Sodre MSc. Guest Federico Garcia Vigil. The program included "Fantasy for Violin and Orchestra" by Eduardo Fabini with Amiram Ganz as first violin, and "Symphony No. 9 in D minor op. 125 Ludwig van Beethoven" with the interpretation of the soprano Maria Jose Siri, the Adriana Mastrángelo mezzo, tenor and bass Marandino Gerardo Ariel Cazes. === Features === Established in the historic downtown corner of Andes and Mercedes, on an area of approximately 25,000 m². It has two rooms, Eduardo and Hugo Balzo Fabini prepared to house shows, an amphitheater, exhibition areas and large areas of movement, plus rehearsal rooms and workshops. The building is expressed as a set of activities where the show is the ultimate goal for them: the stage and auditorium emerges from the center of the block as a closed box, around which all sectors of the building are articulated, that surrounded by a perimeter unit volume, have different treatments, avoiding image monumental.La Eduardo Fabini room has 2006 locations. It is intended for opera, symphony and ballet performances. His pit can accommodate more than 100 musicians, organized in three modules with movements, based on an automated lift. El, the largest in the country, the scene has a height of 27 meters and an adjustable mouth scene that can reach a maximum of 15.50 meters wide by 12 meters long. Practically all the elements that dress galleries attenuate reverberation, highlighting the architectural design, the ceiling (acoustically transparent) and paneling sophisticated acoustic design. And according to the needs, the automated movement of the curtains of the front of the stage allows finely controlled reverberación.La Hugo Balzo room has a capacity of 280 seats and offers a great flexibility and stage technique for processing. Intended for chamber music, presented today as a multipurpose room, able to take the scenic challenges of small shows. Annex to this room are located local record audio and video, both of the shows that take place in the room Balzo, as in other salas.Las rehearsal rooms, modern, bright naturally, are aimed at every artistic body dressing and complementary addition to local artists. The construction sector has an important workshops at three levels of double height, for the production and realization of stage productions, as well as the manufacture of clothing and characterization of performers. === The challenge is raised ... = Since opening == Adela Reta Auditorium has hosted the most distinguished contemporary artists, both classical music and the opera, ballet and music polular. Among others, Bobby acted McFerryn, Yo-Yo Ma, Sol Gabetta, Mary Noel Ricceto, Barry Douglas, El Cigala, Bebo Valdez, Daniel Viglietti.El 2009 marked the history of cultural and musical life in Uruguay, for almost 40 years after the fire that destroyed the old Studio Theater, opened the Sodre Adela Reta, a cultural and multidisciplinary center which is the largest arts center in the country and one of the most modern in Latin America National Auditorium. == See also == * SODRE ==== References == external Links == * Urquiza (1905-1971), by Pablo Montero * Interview with Diego Zorrilla Errandonea by César di Candia, 18/06/2005 * Opening SODRE National Auditorium in Presidency of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay, official site * pictures Adela Reta National Auditorium in Sodre, official website * Sodre Complex, the construction company reports Palenga * Adela Reta National Auditorium is a reality, newspaper Article, 20/11 / 2009 * the grandeur of the place is in the opportunities will, newspaper Article, 21/11/2009 * Perez, Federico; Sosa, Laura; Turnes, Lucia; Introduction to strategic planning SODRE ahead of the reopening of Adela Reta Auditorium, Opening Monographs * Adela Reta National Auditorium, Audiovisual...