Florencio Sánchez (Montevideo, January 17, 1875 - Milan, Italy, November 7, 1910), Uruguayan journalist and playwright, whose production and artistic heritage is developed on both banks of the Rio de la Plata. It is considered one of the major figures in world theater. == Biography == He was born on January 17, 1875 in Montevideo (Uruguay). Son of Olegario Mussante Sánchez and Josefa, had 11 siblings. After leaving high school, but was a tireless reader, he alternated his time between Montevideo, Buenos Aires and Rosario. It was in these cities where he developed an intense journalistic (La Voz del Pueblo, El Siglo, La Razon, El Nacional, El País) and work teatral.Al burst in 1897, the civil war in Uruguay, joined the ranks of Aparicio Saravia in monitoring the party tradition of his family, at which time he maintained contact with some prominent personalities of the intelligentsia, as Eduardo Acevedo Díaz. Appalled by the climate surrounding the uprising, deserted and went to Brazil. Will emerge from this period his disenchantment with traditional political views, reflected in his Letters from a floppy, and began his active membership in anarchism. He wrote in Protest and the magazine The Sun directed by Alberto Ghiraldo. His works Puertas Adentro Thieves and fall within the anarchist model === His association with anarchism === In Montevideo entered the International Centre for Social Studies (anarchist main local town, whose motto was. "Free individual community free "). Florencio is actively involved in the International Center, giving several lectures, reading his "Letters of Light", declared anarchist, sharing the podium with both Pietro Gori, as Guaglianone Pascual, an Argentine woman struck by the example of Gori lectured throughout the city. There Florencio serves as librarian of the newly opened Library Workers, any text collaborates with the Center newspaper "Tribuna Libertarian". Creates a dramatic-edged box with Edmundo Bianchi and Eulogio Peyrot, where they intend to extend the speech, the libertarian discourse, most entertaining way of communication. The experience is a success and there ensue Florencio works presented until today such as "Inside" or "Thieves" and "rascals", a much-changed-or rather are what we now call "Canillita ". In addition to the International Centre, Florencio frequents the library Modern Bertani Orsini, an anarchist who published his first works to Rafael Barret, Angel Falco or Ernesto Herrera, among many others, and especially the haunting Polo Bamba, a cafe located opposite the independence Square was the main meeting place of the anarchists by the Center Internacional.Será Florencio also the main driver of a project that it took a couple of months to complete. Editing an anarchist newspaper, is it called "The Work" and will be the first (and one of the few) anarchist journal Uruguay.Mientras both conferences were happening between December 1900 and May 1901 Florencio gave at least seven conference at the International Centre. The issue so upset that the police chief was ordered to stop. Fugitive police went to Rosario (Argentina) left. In Rosario was deputy editor of The Republic, publication directed by Lisandro de la Torre. It was here that he published his first notes of political and social character. They appeared critical and scathing realism that characterized his theatrical production. Florencio is involved with the labor movement and local anarchist, frequents the "People's House", the main center of agitation, and when the strike broke out at the refinery of sugar, the main industrial center of the province, is at the service of the same. The pages of "The Republic" are at the service of the conflict, Florencio is Chief of the Strike Committee and writes, for example, a statement of the same dated October 1901. Contribute also demonstrations on 1 May 1902 front line beside the famous anarchist Virgina Bolten.Pero their working situation was complicated when workers of "the Republic" went on strike and he said its director-also acceded to it. Later he founded a newspaper with colleagues called "The Era" also written a new play called "The Honest People" where a character mocks the government which is to turn his former boss and owner of "The Republic" . For the premiere Mr. Schniffer-owner of The Republic-manages to suspend the work, and Florencio prohibits police chased and beaten in the street, while the copies of "The Era" announcing the text of the play forbidden sold like hot bread. It was necessary to enact a law to make them stop censorship circular.Así Florencio Rosario to Buenos Aires, where a major strike after the "Residence Act" an anti-anarchist law lets take the country any foreigner be imposed it sees fit, the Federacion Obrera Regional Argentina, anarchist tendency responds with a general strike, while the government decreed a state of siege and censorship. Given this "Protest", chief spokesman of the Buenos Aires anarchism is attacked and prohibited. Florencio Sánchez achieved with other colleagues secretly remove each night in a different printing and repression to dodging it circulated. Florencio is also responsible for the drafting of a special supplement to the magazine shows "The Sun" directed by Alberto Ghiraldo to cope with this represión.Luego considered that Florencio away from anarchism. However, linked to continued circle of friends and intellectuals linked to anarchism-that is it not considered a deserter. He continued to participate in workers' meetings, for example, there are reports that he was seen in the local "Protest" on 1 May 1904. Continued trying in all its problematic works and social contradictions that anarchism had always done emphasis. And finally, in 1909 when his fame was totally consecrated (and life to some conclusion) following the brutal repression on 1 May 1909 again took charge of the drafting of the anarchist newspaper "La Protesta" and banned again clandestino.En Read the dotor M'hijo 1903, premiering with great success in Buenos Aires. The September 25, 1903 married Catherine Raventos and their sponsors were José Joaquín de Vedia and Engineers. Also in 1903 he wrote the farce Honest People and Canillita his first play, which was performed by a Spanish zarzuela company. Solidarity with the striking workers graphics, loses his job. Police turn prevents the release of Honest People. However, Sanchez does not decline their commitment ideológico.En 1906, Sanchez moved to La Plata, where he worked in the Office of anthropometric identification, which had been founded by Juan Vucetich Police. Passionate observer, as Sanchez had preferred his plays proletarian life, family, tenement, immigrants represented various social types on both sides of the Río de la Plata, showing miseries and hopes the world of work through issues the daily life of its personajes.El 25 September 1909 sailed for Europe on the Italian ship "Prince di Udine" as a commissioned officer of the Uruguayan President Claudio Williman, to report on whether or not the Uruguayan government to participate in a projected Art Exhibition in Rome, arriving at Genoa on October 13, 1909. Having spent a few months wasting a large sum of money as an advance for the right to represent their works in Europe in various Italian and French cities, suffering from tuberculosis, died at 3 am on November 7, 1910 in the "Fate Bene Fratelli 'Charity Hospital in Milan (Italy), where he had been hospitalized for five days before bronchitis in the left lung. The January 21, 1921 his remains arrived in Montevideo and were taken to the National Pantheon Build ===== Dramatic Works == * === Honest People (farce,.. Released on June 26, 1903 it was renamed The Kurdish) * M'hijo the Doctor (tragicomedy in three acts, premiered on August 13, 1903) * Canillita (farce, released on October 2, 1903) * Bonds of San Juan (farce in two acts, premiered on 7 August 1904) * poor people (two-act comedy, released in October 1904) * La gringa (a comedy in four acts, premiered on November 21, 1904) * Canyon below (tragedy in three acts, premiered on 26 April 1905) * Santa Bag (farce, released on June 9, 1905) * family (tragedy in three acts, premiered on October 6, 1905) * the Dead (comedy in three acts, premiered on 23 October 1905) * the tenement (operetta in one act, released on June 22, 1906) * eviction (farce, released on July 16, 1906) * the last (a comedy in three acts; released on October 22, 1906) * The Kurdish (farce, released on January 2, 1907) * The tigra (farce, released on January 2, 1907) * Currency false (farce, released on January 8, 1907) * the Pichuleo cacique (zarzuela, released on January 9, 1907) * the picture of health (a comedy in three acts, premiered on December 4, 1907) * Our children (three-act comedy, released in June 1908) * Marta Gruni (farce, released on July 7, 1908) used as a text for an opera by Jaures Lamarque Pons in 1967 * good business (comedy in two acts, premiered on May 2, 1909) === journalistic works = * == a loose Card (1900) * the criminal leadership in South America (1903) == * == Tributes in tribute to the writer, at the time of his death, Canillita Day commemorates the newsboy in street, in Argentina and Uruguay. * After his death, the city of La Plata put his name to the Diagonal 75. * the the Cologne city Florencio Sánchez was named in his honor. * Several theaters are named Theatre Florencio Sánchez. == Filmography == * impossible Passion (1943) directed by Luis Bayon Herrera on work health rights canyon below * (1937) directed by Joseph V. Grubert == See also == * Ernesto Herrera * Anarchism in Argentina Teatro Florencio Sánchez * == References ==== References == * Hyalmar Blixen, Florencio Sanchez, Martyrdom and glory of a writer * Walter Rela, El Teatro Florencio Sánchez * Wilfredo Jimenez, Florencio Sánchez's passion. Ed Losange, Buenos Aires, 1955. == External Links == * Biography of Florencio Sánchez. * Florencio Sánchez, life and work in "Digital School". * Works of Florencio Sánchez, articles, specifications and resources about the author in the Virtual Library Miguel de Cervantes. * Florencio Sánchez. Joaquín de Vedia article in Us magazine (1908). * Comments about Canyon down and Family for the centenary of the death of Florencio Sánchez...