Héctor Manuel Vidal (Las Piedras, Canelones, August 26, 1943 - Montevideo, January 12, 2014) was an Uruguayan theater director == Biography == His background in performing arts started at school Drama Club group. , which was also an actor in over forty works. He debuted as an actor under the direction of Antonio Larreta in Chips with everything, the English playwright Arnold Wesker. His first experience as a director was in 1969 with the eve of the slaughter, Chilean Jorge Diaz, staged internally. His directorial debut before the public was in 1974 at the Theatre The Shed with Woyzeck by Georg Büchner.Dos of his productions were more successful scene Eugene Ionesco's Rhinoceros and The Life of Galileo by Bertolt Brecht (1983), both released during the civil-military dictatorship in Uruguay (1973-1985). From these releases, and given the theme of these works, the theater critic Vidal acknowledged the ability to choose the most appropriate works and subject to the sociopolitical context of their country. Another important work of his career as a theater director was Breaking codes (Breaking the Code) of Hugh Whitemore, about the life of Alan Turing, with over 300 of his most recognized funciones.Algunas proposals were Don Mendo's Revenge of Pedro Muñoz dry, Odorless Pereyra the renegau Fontanarrosa, no Man's Land by Harold Pinter, the wedding of the petty bourgeois and Bertolt Brecht the Gatomaquia of Lope de Vega. In his more than four decades as a theater director, also directed plays by Harold Pinter, Ramon del Valle Inclan, Maurice Maeterlinck, Shakespeare, Henry Miller, Jean-Luc Lagarce between otros.Se He joined the Communist Party in 1961. Prior Beat he spent 1973 in Uruguay collaborated with the newspaper El Popular, organ partisan press, and political humor supplement Misia Dura. He worked at the Bank of the Republic until he resigned to devote himself to the theater. Years later left the partido.Fue general and artistic director of the National Comedy in two periods, from 1996 to 1998 and from 2001 to 2006. Resigned in 2006 due to disagreements with the Department of Culture of the Municipality of Montevideo.Fue husband actress and theater director Margarita Musto. His daughter Maria Vidal Musto theater actress. ==== References == External Links == * Hector Manuel Vidal Interview, December 2005. * Hector Manuel Vidal (1943-2014) Essential and powerful, Javier Alfonso, Search, January 16, 2014.