Imilce Viñas (Montevideo, 31 December 1939 -. Idem, August 13, 2009) was a renowned actress, theater director and humorist Uruguayan == Biography == Born in Montevideo, began to delve into the world of acting a. early age. He had a distinguished career in theater and television from 1957 to 1998. It was especially famous for his role in the duo and Coquita Doña Lola, played by actress Laura Sánchez.Destacó in the genre of comedy, which also grew with his husband, actor José Vázquez. With him he carried out the Café Shakespeare & Co, until he was forced to leave the country during the military dictatorship. He sought refuge first in Costa Rica, where he remained for six years (1977-1983) and then in Mexico, where he was just one year, until 1985. With the return of democracy in Uruguay, Viñas again accompanied by her husband and continued on with his work in the entertainment world. On television, participated in Telecataplum and Plop!. Their characters were usually humble and simple, which sought to connect with the average population, echoing their problems and bringing them to the stage. Of special interest was the character of Doña Lola, typical neighborhood neighboring paving the matte and always had something to contar.Entre received awards in honor of his career, highlight the Florencio for Best Actress, for her participation in Fleitas's play, Four to Chekhov (1985). Returns to be awarded in 1992 for his dramatic role as best supporting actress in the work of Neil Simon, Lost in Yonkers. Also dabbled in the genre of operetta, with "The Beautiful Helen" Jacques Offenbach.En his later years, he became director and drama teacher, getting to direct the National Comedy Theatre Solis in Montevideo. Currently, he was working in the suicide work, which will continue in theaters as a tribute. On its way through the theater, said: He died on August 13, 2009, as a result of liver failure caused by liver cancer that afflicted him for months. His remains were buried in the North Cemetery of Montevideo. == References ==