Joaquín Torres García (Montevideo, July 28, 1874 - ibid, August 8, 1949) was a prominent painter, teacher, writer, sculptor and art theorist Uruguayan == Biography == Son of Mary and Joaquín Torres García Pérez Fradera. . His father was a native of Mataró and raised in a family of ropers ie a navigation-related family. His mother was Uruguayan, daughter of José María García carpenter, (a Spanish settlers from the Canary Islands) and Misia Rufina Pérez, a mestizo (or a Creole aristocrat). Joaquín Torres Fradera In 1891 moved his family back to Mataró, Catalonia and then to Barcelona. Torres García took painting lessons with Josep Vinardell. His first oil painting was made in 1891 in Mataró, at age 17 años.En 1894 he entered the Official School of Fine Arts in Barcelona, and also attended the Academia Baixas and Artistic Circle San Lucas.En 1903 he worked with Antonio Gaudí and participated in the movement noucentista catalán.En 1904 Iu Pascual performed with an exhibition at the San Lluc Art Circle. That same year he started writing about art, which would throughout his life, with an article in the journal Universitat catalana.En 1912 paintings and drawings exhibited in galleries Dalmau. The catalog text was Eugenio D'Ors and criticism in advertising Jori.En 1910 Rome was commissioned, by the writer Roberto Payró to paint two murals, Agriculture and Livestock for the Uruguayan pavilion at the Universal Exhibition . He exhibited at the fifty obras.En Fayans Catala 1911 participated in the International Art Exhibition of Barcelona Philosophy by Palas on Parnassus as Tenth Muse. "It is a contained, understated scene of great formal purity of their marking geometrismo and regularity, without the dynamism and expressiveness we've seen in the symbolism of trying to get away." In June of the same year through, among others, Eugenio d'Ors met Enric Prat de la Riba, president of the council of Barcelona, who performed various tasks, the highlight was the fresh Sant Jordi Hall of the Palace of the Generalitat of Catalonia Torres Garcia performed between 1913 and 1913 1914.En Notes on art published in Catalan, his first exhibited in 1917 libro.En Dalmau Galleries of Barcelona, next to the Spanish painter Rafael Sala.Publicó Art Evolució in Poble enemic A, No. 8 November 1921 1917.En traveled to New York. His time there gave him few joys and many sorrows. No speak English, could not be integrated and despite his admiration for the constant spectacle that was for him the streets of Manhattan, his time in that city was disheartening. He tried unsuccessfully to work in the Hispanic Society of America or engage in theatrical decor but no luck. He returned to Europe in 1924 1922.En settled in Villefranche-sur-Mer, a village on the French Riviera and in 1926 moved to Paris. In 1928 he met Theo van Doesburg, who introduced him to the members of the De Stijl group. Later he met Piet Mondrian and group Cercle et Carré.En born 1929 organized a major exhibition of Modern Art and National Foreign Dalmau Galleries from Paris to Barcelona. Participated Hans Arp, Sophie Taeuber-Arp, Theo van Doesburg, Mondrian and Van Rees, among others. This exhibition brought together a large group of artists related to De Stijl.En 1932 he returned to Spain, where he settled for two años.En 1934 Torres García traveled to Montevideo with his wife Manolita Pineapple and their 4 children, Olimpia, Augusto, Iphigenia and Horace. Upon arrival at the port of Montevideo was greeted by a large entourage, and immediately began a great activity with interviews, conferences and exposiciones.Poco after returning to his hometown founded the Association of Art Constructivo.El May 24 of that year he gave his first lecture in the auditorium of the University of the Republic organized by the institution "Art and Popular Culture." And on June 5 opened his first solo exhibition in Montevideo, at the local "Friends of the Arts." That same year he was appointed Professor of the Faculty of Architecture of the University of República.En 1936 edited the journal of the Association Constructive Art "Circle and Square" which is a continuation of the magazine "Cercle et Carré" to publish earlier in Paris. It is in that number in one version of the well known Torres García drawing depicting the map of South America with the south facing part superior.En in 1938 he published The tradition of abstract man (constructivist Doctrine), an illustrated manuscript hand on the universal tradition of art published 1939 abstracto.En Metaphysics of American Indian prehistory which seeks to link the traditional pre-Columbian art abstract modern art. That same year dissolved the Association of Constructive Art {{File: Taller Torres Garcia, Lesson, Montevideo, 1947.png | left | thumb | 300 px | Joaquín Torres García with his students in the TTG, Montevideo, 1947.Entre late 1942. early 1943 and the first meetings were held Taller Torres García. At the workshop, painting classes Torres give young artists looking to renew and Uruguayan painting. His idea was to teach exclusively based paint planist strictly in terms of color, line and geometry, determining the unity of the work by a structure made with the golden rule. After his death, the shop will remain open until 1967 by several of his discípulos.Como recalls Guido Castillo, writer and director remover, Workshop magazine, "Torres García taught them the art of painting with the utmost rigor without lower stiffness, so they knew the rules comply with a deep understanding of them. "The workshop will give artists like Julio U. Alpuy, Gonzalo Fonseca, José Gurvich, Alceu Ribeiro, Sergio de Castro and the children of Torres García, Horacio Torres and Augusto, 1944 otros.En among several mural paintings were inaugurated hospital Saint Bois, performed with his disciples the workshop. He won the Grand Prize of Painting VIII National Fine Arts with his oil landscape Menton. Constructive Universalism His book, published in 1944, forms the basis for understanding his view of arte.En 1948 he began to build the house on the street García Torres Caramurú 5612, designed by architects Ernesto Ramon Menchaca and Leborgne.Falleció 8 August 1949, at age 75. == Build == in his early paintings are references to ancient Greco-Roman world as well as teachers of Spanish and Italian Renaissance art, they are characterized by a set of great sobriety drawing color and a particular modernist geometry. From 1928 and its relationship with Mondrian and Van Doesburg, synthetic promoters Neo begins to introduce his paintings orthogonal network that will continue to develop for the rest of his life. Torres García believed that art should be at the service of reason and harmony of the cosmic order and puts it in his work through universal symbols and signs within a structure built on the golden ratio or rule oro.Su work supports a formal, plastic and semantic reading of metaphysical nature. Organize geometric shapes on a mystical idea of the proportion and order, which includes many universal symbols. Expresses the order of the cosmos governed by what he called the Universal Reason, not corresponding to an art form but the "absolute and universal art." In its emblematic pictorial compositions and in his teaching, his writings and lectures, promoting his theory of constructive thought current Universalism as "absolute art" and occupied a place primordial.Parte of his work, as well as manuscripts and correspondence is in the Torres García Museum and Archive in Alejandra, Aurelio and Claudio Torres. Her paintings integrate important collections of Latin American art like Malba or Cisneros Collection. It is also represented in many museums and MNAV region and the world, in some of whose websites are reproductions of his works. === ******* === Publications Conference Transcript dicatada by . Garcia Torres September 5, 1941 in Montevideo *** == Bibliography == ****** Joaquim Torres Garcia: epistolari català: 1909-1936 / Pilar García-Silks; Pròleg d'Eduard Vives. ISBN 84-7826-839-1 * Torres García: pintures Mon Repos: Museu d'Art Modern MNAC, Barcelona [Terrassa] Caixa de Terrassa; [Barcelona]: Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya, 1995 *** Torres García: Picasso Museum in Barcelona, November 25, 2003 to April 11, 2004 Barcelona: AUSA: Institut de Cultura de Barcelona, cop. ISBN 84-88810-62-8 2003 **** Torres García to them seves cruïlles: maig 17 - 11 setembre 2011 / [Comissariat] Tomas Llorens Nicolas Arocena Weapons Barcelona: MNAC, 2011 ISBN 978-84-8043 -232 to 0 == References ==== external links ==...