José Gurvich (1927-1974) was a painter, ceramist and professor of Uruguayan art of Lithuanian descent, one of the key figures of Constructive movement in his country. == Biography == Born in Jieznas (Yezna Yiddish), people Lithuania, in a humble Jewish family; his real name was Zusmanas Gurvicius * 1932. immigrated to Uruguay with his mother and sister, as his father James had emigrated the year before seeking a more prosperous place. It integrated very quickly * 1940. Started working in a factory waterproof, for family needs * 1942. Has joined the National School of Fine Arts under the direction of José Cuneo. He studied violin with Professor Julber, and know why Horacio Torres (son of Joaquín Torres García, who also took classes there * 1944. Julber he completed a meeting with the teacher Joaquín Torres García, which will determine your true delivery vocation * 1945. joined the Taller Torres García and integrated into the Association of Constructive Art, until its closure being active portion thereof Gurvich became thereafter in key member of the movement and beloved disciple of the Uruguayan master whose. influence is evident in his work that the workshop época.Su importance is highlighted by one of the specialists in his work, Angel Kalemberg: "Since joining intervene in the activities of the workshop, in its publications, exhibitions, conducting murals or teaching duties. "* Since the mid-50s, undertook several trips to Europe (where it contacts the master painters.) in 1953 he formed a group of painters, writers and journalists called" Arts and letters "whose purpose was to make a study tour to Europe. Made sets for different theater groups ("Theatre Club", "Theatre of the people", etc..) And assisted in the founding of the "Cine Club Montevideo". * 1955 Performed an exhibition in Rome that year an important change in his work whose main driver was the reunion with his Jewish roots while staying at Kibbutz Ramot Menasche in Israel, where his sister was living. Since then his paintings done with a palette of bright colors and dynamic forms, reflect a symbolic universe in perpetual motion, as seen in the astral man, 1967 * 1970. Passed away his father. He exhibited for the third time in Tel Aviv. In September, arrived in New York for a few months, where he lived with relatives, but ended up integrated into the life of the great American city * 1973. Exhibited work in a sample of the Jewish Museum in New York * 1974:. In February he participated in the exhibition "Sculpture for Painters" (New York). He died on June 24 at the age of 47 years in New York. == == Work and legacy His legacy includes painting, ceramics and murals, which express the influence of Joaquín Torres García with its own characteristics, to its evolution that its origin and roots judías.En 2005 is plasma, opened on Gurvich Museum, dedicated to preserving and disseminating their work through exhibitions and publications about his life and death trabajo.Tras Gurvich, his work has been presented in solo exhibitions in museums such as José Luis Cuevas of Mexico, the Negev Museum of Art in Israel, the Museum of Latin American Art in California, the National Museum of Fine Arts in Chile and Torres García Museum of Montevideo and in galleries in New York, Barcelona, Buenos Aires and Madrid.También participated in different exhibitions on the Taller Torres-García and art of Latin America have been made in MUVIM museums like the Reina Sofia Museum, the Museo del Barrio in New York and Museum of the Americas in Washington as well as in galleries like Cecilia de Torres of New York, the Palatine Gallery Buenos Aires or the Dalmau Gallery in Barcelona, in the exhibitions "El Taller Torres-García" in 1998 and "25 anys of gallery "were honored as the best of their respective years by the Catalan Association of Critical Arte.Entre different cultural personalities who have written about his work include Juan Manuel Bonet, Angel Kalenberg, Alicia Haber, Xavier Barral, Hugo Achugar, Guido Castillo, Marcos Ricardo Barnatán, Numen Vilariño, Alfredo Testoni and Rafael Lorente Mourelle, among many others. One feature that is often noted how Gurvich personality enabled him to transform the influence of Torres García and his workshop in his own vision of art as well, Josep Maria Cadena, art critic for the Journal, commenting on exhibition in the Hall Dalmau in 2000: "For me, the best Gurvich is, without ceasing to appreciate his earlier work, in the works painting from 1956, after a stay in a kibbutz in Israel, then is when you apply. constructivism learned magmatic reality of life and finds an aesthetic order which belongs Maestro himself after being faithful disciple. "About his work in New York says Juan Manuel Bonet." Figured street signs traffic announcements, the water tanks forever hopperianos, poeticized meters high by José Juan Tablada. Assimilated aspects of U.S. popular culture, including the flag, the dollar, Popeye ... He gave visions chaotic-see for example the years 1971-1972 tempera - that have certain affinities with the works of his more simultaneistas Montevideo youth and visions of the New York Torres-Garcia himself. And simultaneously, the wandering stopped Gurvich not miss his adoptive Montevideo, sweet city you would never. "The scholar's work Gurvich, the teacher Alicia Haber, José Gurvich in its letter, the sculptor says:" In his creative universe imaginative force, the absurd, freedom and fantasy increased. A metamorphosed reality and a fluctuating world are reflected in all his works. There in all its production a deep humanism, a song to the couple, family and love. Hence the references to universal man and Adam and Eve, the primordial couple. The cosmic astral constellations and also figure prominently in its production place. "== References == *" Gurvich Museum 5th Anniversary ", reprint of Motion, newspaper news, October, 2010, DL n º 33.1031 == See also = Gurvich Museum = * == external links ==...