M'hijo The Dotor is a play written in 1903 by Uruguayan playwright Florencio Sánchez. It was the work for which acquired great reconocimiento.Es a rural drama in three acts having a clash among the people belonging to the rural society of the century, and those who have moved to the city. The theme of the play is the conflict between two different conceptions of life, the eternal clash of generations. == Plot == Sanchez criticizes the traditional way of life that keeps the family (fossilized mindset) by Julio, who returns after study medicine in the city, with ideas and customs vulgares.Chocarán therefore the beginning, the peasant father, family leader, and this, university, for whom culture meant total revision of their schemes of life that returned an ignoramus. And then wants to destroy all values considered anachronistic: parental authority, the obligations imposed by his relations with women. In this way lose consciousness limits, and justifies the deception and conception irresponsabilidad.La mentality and July will face throughout the book to his father, who resents his son. There is a parallel in the work generational conflict opposition schematics field (parent) - City (son). With elements of the peasant environment (characters, quirky arrangements, ideologies, behaviors) Sanchez dramatizes the conflict of two mentalidades.Encontramos also the subject of "Don Juan": July falls pregnant and the goddaughter of his parents, Jesusa, a peasant who excited with the love of the young, as he plans to marry Sara, the daughter of family friends who have moved to the city. Sara later, Julio rejected because parents consider him "a seducer of the worst kind" and he "closed the doors of his house" that is identified with Olegario, matching your pattern valores.Luego fight maintaining father and son for their different thoughts on life, Julio leaves his home and father enferma.Por this reason go to town looking for a doctor treating the man, and mother, always protective of July begs to be reconciled and that looks bad to anciano.El Jesusa conflict erupts again when he learns that Julio has decided to marry Sara. It gets really bad and Don Olegario (father Julio) forces her to tell him the reason for his sadness and llanto.De thus Olegario learns what has made her son and asks him to marry her immediately to Julio niega.En the field, Olegario still very ill and can not get out of bed. Mother begs Julio who promises his father before his death to be married to Jesusa, what finally accede.La work culminates with the death of Olegario and the promise of love between July and Jesusa, and Julio said that access to marriage for the "greatness of soul" that she finds to say you do not need to marry her if she does not love her (even though she is madly in love with him). Jesusa said that he does not want to sacrifice and is willing to marry Eloy, who had proposed to her and had declared its readiness to accept even having a baby in July. It is then that Julio says he loves hers, she is beauty, truth, goodness. But she says she is excited and the next day ... Finally Jesusa regret the work ends by stating that "the future will decide" ... while Julio narrow your hands saying "Oh Life! ... Life! ". == Trials on" M'hijo the Doctor "==" Conflicts between a centuries old tradition and a new moral, the Florencio Sánchez drama scene leads to a page of bold philosophy, under the ordinary mantle own stunts . Creole our life the public applauded the unanimous interesting drama, theatrical chroniclers celebrated the neat technical competence and few, very few, they discovered the essential "M'hijo the Doctor", the most worthy to be noted: the conflict between ethics old, twilight, and new ethics, just at the dawn designed highly revolutionary ideals. Sánchez drama was an original thesis. "José Ingenieros