Amalia 'Mali' Guzman (Montevideo, June 27, 1961) is a Uruguayan children's author, playwright, journalist and stage designer. == Biography == He trained as an actress in the acting school of the theater as a set designer for Warehouse theater and television in the Multidisciplinary School of Dramatic Arts Xirgú Margarita (EMAD). He was a disciple of artist Enrique 1994.Es Badaró between 1990 and author of several plays aimed at children. In 2001 his work crazy Witches Tales was nominated for the award in the category Florencio best children's show. This work freely adapts and integrates tales Valerie Thomas (The witch Berta), Arcadio Lobato (The greatest treasure) and Merce Company (Nana Bunilda eats nightmares). Also adapted to the children's theater Adventures and misadventures of Casiperro novel Hunger Graciela Montes, with the title of Casiperro, and is co-author of the play adult Goodnight, Aphrodite, along with Arturo Fleitas and Serrana Ibarra.Como journalist develops issues of children's literature in several ways: in El País Cultural (supplement of El País); ? on housework educational magazines, Shall I tell you, Fathers, Mothers & Sons, Latin American Journal of Children's Literature (Colombia, whose editorial board integrated), Education and Library (Spain); CX 22 with a weekly segment of children's literature (1996) and in children's programming from TV City (1999). Between 1995 and 2000, he edited the children's literature section in the magazine rack. In 2006 he produced for national television program Band, conducted by child journalistic children 6 to 11 years, with whom he won the award in the category Tabaré best television program for children. The following year he was advisor programming for children and adolescents of the same will canal.Presidió the direct advice of the Uruguayan subsidiary of IBBY (International Board on Books for Young People - International Agency for the promotion of adolescent children's book). Since 2008 advises the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC) in the National Reading Plan from 2010 and coordinates the National System of Public Libraries Uruguay.Entre other awards won in 1992, How is this book called?, The first prize in the contest organized by Amauta children's literature and the MEC. The National Audiovisual Institute in 1996 awarded him the prize for fiction television script (adult) by Windmills, coauthored by Raquel Costa. In 2001, with a place for me (tales of love, ear and throat) won the Second National Book Award in the category Children's Books edits 2000.En category 2003 won second prize edits books for Riddles in school (and other school gossip), written in collaboration with illustrator Sergio López Suárez. He was a finalist of Latin American children's literature award, organized by the Editorial Norma and Fundalectura foundation Colombia, with theft. This work was published under the title The theft of my birthday. In 2008, Augustine works walker and Weird Stuff, won first and second prize respectively in the category of children's literature unpublished Annual Literature Award MEC. In 2008 he won first prize and the second annual Children's literature in the Unpublished category MEC by Augustine Walker and rare, respectively stuff. In 2010 it won the Children's Literature category edit by Night fell, and in 2012 returned to win in the Unpublished category by Kaleidoscope (rhymes and songs.) Is co-author of the children's collection "Hunting-curious» Abundant editorial. He has coordinated workshops on children's literature, reading projects and other literary activities with children, adolescents, teachers and parents. Integrated juries in several competitions, including several children's film, sponsored by Uruguayan Cinematheque. == Works == * A place for me (Stories of love, ear and throat) (Abundant, 2001) * How is called this book ? (Abundant, 2002) * I hate you, Clap (Abundant, 2003) * Riddles in school (and some school gossip) (Abundant, 2003) with illustrator Sergio López Suárez * Riddles of terror (and other horrendous gossip) (Abundant, 2003) with illustrator Sergio López Suárez * stealing my birthday (Trilce, 2005) * night fell (Ediciones SM, Argentina, 2008); Theatre * crazy witches Tales (2001) * Casiperro (2002) * Good night, Aphrodite == References ==