Margarita Musto (Montevideo, November 16, 1955) is an American actress, theater director, translator and professor Uruguayan general and artistic director of the National Comedy. == Biography == He graduated in 1982 from the Municipal School of Dramatic Art. It was directed by directors like Carlos Aguilera, Jorge Curi, Mario Morgan, Omar Varela, China Zorrilla, David Hammond and Valentin Tepliakov. He participated in the works of classical authors such as Chekhov, Shakespeare, Federico García Lorca, among otros.Trabajó in the television series The Three. In film, she played the title role in The almost true story of Pepita the holster, led by Beatriz Flores Silva. For this role she was awarded at the International Film Festival of Guadalajara and the XII Film Festival of Uruguay. In 2008 Flores Silva returned to direct our Powder in heaven. He has participated in other films such as Portrait of woman with man in the background (1997) of Manane Rodriguez and Blas memory Quadra (2002) and Southern Star (2002), by Luis Nieto.Como actress, one of most important works was Breaking codes (Breaking the Code) of Hugh Whitemore, about the life of Alan Turing. Directed by Hector Manuel Vidal, the work remained in the lineup for four years and more than 300 functions, from 1994. Other important interpretations in his career were The Gronholm Method, A relationship pornographic, Frozen, Autumn Sonata (directed by Omar Varela), Mother Courage, Closer, an inspector (China Zorrilla), etc.Su work in honor of merit, based on the investigation of the murder of Zelmar Michelini, and in which he also acted, was released in 2000 has come in The Warehouse Theatre. Thanks to this work Florencio won the award in the best text author and the first national playwriting award in 2001 IMM. In 2011 he returned to get the Florencio for best director and best stage show of the season Blackbird (On the Wings of a black bird), Scottish playwright David Harrower. Another of his successes as a director was Top Girls, English playwright Caryl Churchill.Ha plays translated from French and English into Spanish. He teaches at the School of Dramatic Arts Multidisciplinary Margarita Xirgú and Film School Uruguay, besides dictating acting workshops. From January 2, 2013 is the first woman to hold the position of general and artistic director of the Comedy Nacional.A 2004 the Uruguayan subsidiary of B'nai B'rith was awarded the lifetime achievement award Fraternity teatral.Fue wife theater director Héctor Manuel Vidal, who died in 2014. Their daughter Maria Vidal Musto theater actress. == Filmography == * the almost true story of the holster Pepita (1993) * Portrait of woman with man in the background (1997) * Quadra memory Blas (2002) * southern Star (2002) * Masangeles (2008) * our Powder in Heaven (2008) * How do I rate? (short, 2011) == References ==== External links == * A woman in front of Comedy (interview with Margarita Musto), January 10, 2013....