Margarita Xirgu Subirá (in Catalan, Margarida Xirgu Subirà) (Molins de Rey, Barcelona, July 18, 1888 - Montevideo, April 25, 1969) was a Spanish actress consecrated especially associated with the works of García Lorca. Exiled during the Franco dictatorship, took the Uruguayan. == Spain == began her work as an actress in girl groups and fans since his professional debut with the Society of Josep Santpere. In 1910 he formed his own company, and released, among others, the works and Andronica The young queen in the Romea Theatre of Barcelona, which earned him a great reputation in the scene catalana.Entre 1909 and 1916 took part in some movies, and after that experience again not to be on camera more than once, in 1938 with the Argentine film sangre.En Weddings 1914 jumped to Madrid, where he worked in the Spanish Theatre, performing works of Valle-Inclan (Divine Release words, 1933), George Bernard Shaw, Gabriele D'Annunzio, Alejandro Casona (La sirena Varada, 1934) and Federico García Lorca, which was frequent contributor, as the poet of Fuente Vaqueros released almost all her major works: Mariana Pineda, with sets by Salvador Dali (1927); The Shoemaker's Prodigious Wife (1930), Yerma (1934), Doña Rosita the Spinster or The Language of Flowers (1935) and the revival of Blood Wedding (1935), with sets by 1933 Caballero.En got act in the Roman Theatre . Mérida, marking the beginning of the Classical Theatre Festival of Extremadura Exile in South America Capital == == thumb | 150px | Margarita Xirgu.Poco before the start of the Spanish Civil War began a tour of South America with works of Lorca. In 1937 he made Yerma and Doña Rosita the Odeon Theater in Buenos Aires. In 1938 starred in the film Argentina Blood Wedding directed by Edmundo Guibourg.Con Franco victory in 1939 was exiled living in Chile and in Uruguay and Argentina. In 1945 premiered at the Teatro Avenida in Buenos Aires last drama Lorca, The House of Bernarda Alba.En Montevideo represented works by Spanish authors and obtained the position of director of the Municipal School of Dramatic Arts (EMAD) in 1949. Near her actors like Amelia de la Torre, Candida Losada, Alberto Closas and Enrique Diosdado formed. He acted and directed at National Comedy Theatre Solis Uruguay in Montevideo young China Zorrilla in Romeo and Juliet, Dream of a Summer Night and Wedding sangre.Obtuvo Uruguayan nationality, bought a house in the resort of Punta Ballena , and remained in Maldonado Uruguay during the last twenty years of Montevideo vida.En Multidisciplinary School of Dramatic Art (which he directed since its founding in 1949 until 1957) bears his name. == Rating == * in 1988, nineteen year old after his death, the Generalitat of Catalonia demanded the repatriation of his remains, now lie in his birthplace. * the localities and of Hospitalet de Llobregat Badalona (both Barcelona) have an institute that bears his name . * the chamber opera Ainadamar (2004) Argentine Osvaldo Golijov is inspired by the South American tour of Margarita Xirgu. * in recognition of his work, the Spanish Agency for International Cooperation for Development and Foreign Radio Spain instituted in 1985 Award of Radio Theatre "Margarita Xirgu." * Has a street named in the cities of Malaga, Guadalajara, Zaragoza, Granada and Sant Feliu de Llobregat (Spain). == represented Works (selection) ==== References == * Genoveva Dieterlich, Dictionary of the theater. Madrid: Alianza Editorial, 1995 == External Links == * Margarita Xirgu Web created by his family * Birth....