Mariana Percovich (December 1, 1963, Montevideo) is a playwright, teacher and director of Uruguayan theater. He graduated as a teacher of literature at the Institute of Teachers Artigas (IPA) of Montevideo. Before their return to ADEM had been Coordinator of Performing Arts of the Ministry of Education and Culture of his country, where four years was. He has won the Florencio Award twice. Since 2007 the company is part of Plot. == Biography == In his childhood, Percovich liked theater and the influence of his parents, who helped her to be a "spectator conscious" but had decided not to be an actress. Before starting his theatrical career he worked as a cultural journalist in various media, such as the weekly "Search", where he served as editor of the culture section, and also as a teacher of literature in different schools teatro.Su first contact with stage direction it had the support of director Carlos Aguilera, who allowed him to be his assistant in all trials of his "nobody remembers Frederick Chopin" in 1982 when she was 19 years edad.Debido to lack preparation of offers theater directors, as director Percovich formed to train as an observer of the scene under the same Carlos Aguilera tutoring as well as theater directors also Héctor Manuel Vidal, Jorge Eduardo Curi and Schinca and his father, who "made us look at the architecture. since very young forced me to be very observant of my city. "Percovich continued his studies in Europe when he was a scholarship to the Royal Court Theatre in London, where his tutors Steven Berkoff and Steven Daldry, among others . He was also in the Open Theatre in Paris, where he was residente.En 2004 he began his first term as director of the Municipal School of Dramatic Arts (EMAD), which lasted three years, until 2007, when he resigned for professional differences with school teachers. Later served as Coordinator for the Performing Arts, Ministry of Education and Culture of Uruguay, where he worked under the direction of Hugo Achugar poet and essayist, National Director of Cultura.En 2007 joined the company COMPLOT with playwright and theater director Gabriel Calderon, choreographer Martin Inthamoousú and actor and theater director Ramiro Perdomo. His first production with the new company was "An Irish Rain", the Majorcan author Josep Pere-Peyró.Desde 2012 occupies the address again EMAD, where his new project is reforming the curriculum of the school to the degree reach the same level of degree. == == address Personal style leadership style of Percovich highlighted by "a scenic research on the relationship between the viewer and space", which has led to mounting his works both conventional theaters and unusual, such as public or historic buildings, bars, stalls or stations tren.Este style was stated from his first work in 1995, you marry in America, which was presented at the Synagogue Hungarian sites Montevideo. His intention was since finding new languages generated by "the aura and symbolism that emerges from those places" to interact with the infrastructure and give a new meaning to serve as a challenge for the espectador.En the nineties, his style was influenced by the work of Antonio Araujo, who was followed by the public while representing his work in the hallways and stairs abandoned hospital "Umberto Primo", in Sao Paulo, Brazil. This form of representation is subsequently used in his works "Target two or three things," "Game of cruel ladies," "The Wandering of Nod" and "Penthesilea." Percovich was inspired by his colleague Roberto Bartís to define your shape to see the acting work and so pass it to the actors who work with her: == == works Among the works Percovich addressed include: * you will marry in America, 1995 * Destination of two things or three, 1996 * Game cruel ladies Extraviada 1997 * 1998 * Alicia underground, 1998 * Ashes in my Heart, fair Project 1999 * 2001 * the wandering of Nod, 2002 * Jocasta - A Tragedy, 2003 * deserted beach, 2007 * for Export of Uruguay , 2008 * Medea Olimar, Chaika 2009 *, 2009 * Cuartito Blue. Kaleidoscopic and tango Melodrama, 2010 * Penthesilea 2011La work ladies cruel game has been the most awarded Percovich. For she received the Florencio Award twice, once for the best show and one for best directora.El Project Fair was a draft created by Percovich legwork in response to an invitation from the International Festival Mercosur, of Cordoba in Argentina, which conducted by the various markets in the city. For its implementation, Percovich chose two models show: the phenomena and conventional. The project represented for her the summary of a search of the integration of art with the national identity of six years. After his presentation in Cordoba, the project was held in Montevideo, a year later. "Ashes in My Heart", "Stray" and "Jocasta" have been published in Uruguay, France and Argentina in Spanish, English and French. in addition to appearing in Montevideo, his works have also been presented in Santiago de Chile, Buenos Aires, Córdoba, San Paulo, Curitiba, Barcelona, Madrid, London and Nuevo Leon (Mexico), among other cities. == == Awards received Besides the Florencio Award, Percovich earned the ITI References Prize (International Theatre Institute) for "You'll marry in America," the Morosoli Silver Award for "Stray" and the Iris awards, Moliere, MEC and Gralha Blue. == external Links == * ==== Mariana Percovich - official website * Mariana Percovich - Official Facebook Profile * Mariana Percovich - Official Twitter Profile * Mariana Percovich - Official YouTube Channel * Plot - official Site