The Nuyorican Poets Cafe is an NGO in Alphabet City, Manhattan. It is a formidable bastion of Nuyorican art movement in New York City, USA. UU., And has become a forum for poetry, music, hip hop, video, visual arts, comedy and theater. == History == Founded circa 1973, Cafe Poets Nuyorican Poets Café Began operating in the East Village apartment of writer, poet, and Rutgers University professor Miguel Algarin with assistance from co-founders Miguel Piñero, Bimbo Rivas, and Lucky Cienfuegos.By 1975, the number of poets Involved with the venture outgrew That space, so I Algarin rented an Irish pub, the Sunshine Cafe on East 6th Street, and They christened it "The Nuyorican Poets Café." Some of the featured poets at this time included founders Miguel Algarin, Miguel Piñero and Lucky Cienfuegos. Jorge Brandon aka Coco Talking, Sandra Maria Esteves, Pedro Pietri, Bimbo Rivas, Victor Hernandez Cruz, Tato Laviera, Piri Thomas, Jesus Papoleto Melendez and Jose Angel Figueroa Were some of the featured poets During the mid to late 1970s. By 1980, the overflow of audiences led them to purchase Their current building at 236 East 3rd Street so as to expand Their activities and programs. During this time the second wave of Nuyorican Poets, featured at the café, including Emerged Nancy Mercado and Martin Espada.In explaining the philosophy of the venture, co-founder Algarin said: We must listen to one another. We must respect one another's habits and we must share the truth and the integrity That the voice of the poet so generously Provides. == == Poets In the 1990s a new group of Nuyorican poets and performing artists Emerged to read at the cafe. Some of These artists include Willie Perdomo, Maggie Estep, Tracie Morris, Dana Bryant, Reg E. Gaines, Paul Beatty, Edwin Torres, Emanuel Xavier, Caridad de la Luz aka La Bruja, Butterfly (Maria Teresa Fernandez) and Shaggy Flores. Others who at one time or another have performed at the Café include, Esmeralda Santiago, Amiri Baraka, Ishmael Reed, Ntozake Shange, Giannina Braschi, Zoraida Santiago, Keven Powell, Cheryl B and Daniel Dumile. The Nuyorican Poets Café counts activists poetry: such as Bob Holman, Saul Williams, Sarah Jones, and Beau Sia as the former slammasters & was the original home to the now mobile New York freestyle battle program Braggin 'Rites, thumb | 1998thumb | 1998Some Nuyorican poets who continue to read and perform at the cafe include Sandra María Esteves, Tato Laviera Jesus Papoleto Melendez, Nancy Mercado, Edwin Torres, Lemon Andersen, Bonafide Rojas, Caridad de la Luz aka La Bruja, Mariposa, Jack Gitesha Diana Castillo and Hernandez. In June 2002, Nuevo Flamenco guitarists Val Ramos opened for three-time Grammy nominee Puerto Rican Danny Rivera at the Nuyorican Poets Café. Algarin, now retired from Rutgers Remains () a board member of the Nuyorican Poets Café. == == Visual artists Visual Artists Which Their Work exhibited at the café include Sarabella Peter Horn, James Gross Alvarez, Andrew Castrucci, Di Mari Peter Maria Dominguez, Lisa Fromartz, Adrian Garcia, Maria Elena Gonzalez, Peter Horn Sarabella, Pedro Isztin, Lower East Side Girls Club, Kevork Mourad, Lloyd Oxendine, Gamaliel Ramirez, Christopher Wade Robinson, Jose Rosario, Juan Sanchez, Studio in a School Association Students, Miguel Trelles, Michelangelo Ruiz, David Troncoso, Rafael Tufino Jr, Fernando Salicrup, Marcos Dimas, The Creative Fem Sandra Maria Esteves Exhibit with Diana Hernandez Gitesha, Shelia Prevost, Marlis Momber, Clare Ultimo, Esperanza Cortez, international documentary photographer Manuel Rivera-Ortiz, and Rob Rodriguez. == == Documentary In 1994, Nuyorican Poets Café was the subject of a 14-minute documentary Entitled Nuyorican Poets Café. Directed, produced and edited by Ray Santisteban, the documentary features founder Miguel Algarin Along with Willie Perdomo, Ed Morales, Pedro Pietri, and Carmen Brown Bardeguez. Nuyorican Poets Café won "Best Documentary" at the 1995 New Latino Filmmaker's Festival in Los Angeles, California.In 1996, the Nuyorican Poets Café Poetry Slam Team was the subject of a feature length documentary Entitled SlamNation. Directed by Paul Devlin, the documentary follows Nuyorican Poetry Slam founder Bob Holman and the Nuyorican poets of the 1996 team (Saul Williams, Beau Sia, Jessica Care Moore and muMs) Peak Gust compete in the 1996 National Poetry Slam held in Portland, OR. The documentary features performances by Marc Also Smith, Taylor Mali, and Patricia Smith Among others.thumb | 1998 | leftthumb | Freestyle Battle 1998 | left == Books == Bisexual Award In 2013, the Bi Writers Association], que bisexual Promotes writers, books, and writing, Announced the winners of its first Bisexual Book Awards. The awards ceremony was held at the Nuyorican Poets Café. == See also == * Puerto Rico * Literature Latin American Literature * List of Puerto Ricans * List of contemporary Puerto Rican writers == References ==== Links ==== Sources external == * Nuyorican Poets Café * Verbs on Asphalt: The History of Nuyorican Poetry Slam