Fluff Vera, whose birth name is Maria de los Angeles Vera Montecoral (August 19, 1940, Montevideo) is a Uruguayan actress, considered "one of the more prominent figures in theater and television in Uruguay." She began her career as a model, but then went to the theater and from there to the TV. He also dabbled in radio. It was part of the cast of comedy shows both Uruguayan and Argentine, as High Comedy, Theatre and theater, Decalegrón, Jaujarana, Híperhumor or Zapping between otros.Ha received several awards and performed in several countries of America and Europe. In 2010 received an ex gratia pension "under the services rendered to the national culture." == Biography == His father, Dionisio Alejandro Vera, was a journalist for El Pais, editor of a philosophy called chronic lizards. When he was about 15 he started to Club Theatre with Antonio Larreta and model. He performed at the Theatre Centre and the University Theatre, representing works of Peter Shaffer and Charles Dyer, among others. It was one of the first to do television in Uruguay, working for three private channels (4, 10 and 12) programs, commercials and fashion shows between 1957 and radio 1964.Debutó cycle 'radio drama of the Stars "in the fonoplatea serials of the National Radio in the Palacio Salvo. In 1962 debuted in Telecataplum, humor Uruguayan program was also issued in 1964 Argentina.En traveled to Europe as a correspondent for the newspaper El Pais from Germany, the couple continued to work as a model for international magazines such as Für Sie and advertising agencies . He later traveled to France even as a correspondent for El País while performing various jobs. He joined the University of the Theatre of Nations, college touring with the Spanish director Victor Garcia, who founded The Altarpiece, first Hispanic theater in Paris. The first play performed in the former Grand Guignol theater was "Stories to be told" Osvaldo Dragun. Also reinauguran Cabaret "La Fontaine de quatre saisons" representing paper La Rosa Ramón del Valle Inclán.En 1966 returned to South America, working in theater and television in Montevideo and Buenos Aires and from then until 1992 was stable part of cast programs that followed in both cities as Telecataplum Decalegrón (1977), Jaujarana, Theatre and Theatre, Upper comedy Híperhumor, Mix and Shopping Center. In the 1980s I conducted two radio program, "The Journal of Fluff" in Radio Maldonado and "Veraneando in Punta", issued to several cities in Uruguay, Argentina and Brazil Radio Sarandi. He also led his first TV show, "Saturday TV Fluff», transmitted by Channel 9 Punta del Este. Repeated between 1993 and 1995 with a program that would also be a producer, "All right," that would be transmitted by cable and broadcast TV across the country for 25 channels, plus Argentina and represented the sole Brasil.En 1993 «My Stuff" , a play that brought coffee concert inside the country, Buenos Aires and Caracas, also being chosen to represent Uruguay at the XX International Theatre East, developed in Venezuela in 1994, the year he also played we Who Love us both the Center Theater "my things" would remain running until the official competition jury 2004.Fue Carnival organized by DAEPCU in the field of comedy and joy together. In September 2009, requested the Executive Branch the authority to grant an ex gratia pension "under services to national culture ', which was granted in August 2010, after being rejected in October 2009 by a report Permanent Commission for the treatment of Graciables.En 2011 Pension participated in a video produced by members of the Movement for Sustainable Uruguay and the Committee of Residents and Friends of Punta del Diablo, to warn about the risks of open pit mining . Beside her were other Uruguayan personalities as Osvaldo Laport, Smurf Lombardo, Miguel Nogueira, Cristina Morán, Eunice Castro, Silvia Kliche and Dani Umpi, among others. == Awards == In the 1970s won a poetry contest Association Argentina actors with other actors and resulting in 1973 published 10 poems in the book "Poets actors." In 1990 and 1994 he was awarded the prize for best Tabaré humorous actress. == Notes ==== References ==...