The Figari Prize was established in 1995 by the Central Bank of Uruguay. It is a recognition of visual artists Uruguayan activity involving a consecration in his line of work. Non-competitive, in each issue an organizing committee proposes a qualified seeks to analyze the situation of the most prominent artists jury, reviewing their achievements, career and impact at the local level and I internacional.Desde its inception, the modality and format has changed. The first edition was called, five finalists were selected and awarded a First Prize. Already from the second edition of the competition was removed and three prizes of equal economic value will be awarded. Some editions were characterized by three artists reward of the same discipline or formal characteristics similares.A its tenth year from the participation of the Uruguayan Association of Art Critics (AUCA) in the selection and organization was incorporated until 2009 , that from a bailment signed with the Ministry of Education and Culture became the award managed by the National Culture and Figari'' Space'' became the seat of the Museum Figari.thumb | right | Pedro FigariA since issue XV, the Figari Award is given annually to one artist, as recognition of his career and encourage the creation Nacional.A 2011 was held at the National Museum of Visual Arts a retrospective of the works of 47 artists awarded in the 15 editions of the award, belonging to the heritage of the Central Bank of Uruguay. == == Recognition with his artistic work on behalf prize honors Figari Pedro Figari (Montevideo, 1861-1938) stands out as one of the figures most influential in the creation of a comprehensive awareness Uruguayan artistic medium. As a lawyer, legislator, politician, journalist, teacher and artist, Figari activity was marked by a vital concern for cultural issues, recognition of local values and the creation of a national cultural identity. == Awards == Figari from bailment signed between the Central Bank of Uruguay and the Ministry of Education and Culture Prize in 2009 Figari became managed by the Ministry of Education and Culture (National Directorate of Culture) and the Museo Figari. That year was not performed and it is from 2010 that is delivered to a single artist in each issue. == References ==...