Renée Pietrafesa Bonnet (Montevideo, December 17, 1938) is a composer, pianist, organist, harpsichordist and director Franco-Uruguayan orchestra. His compositions explore both popular genres of art, including most particularly the electro-acoustic music. == Biography == Born in Montevideo and began her musical studies with her mother, pianist and pedagogue Renée Bonnet. Then with Jörg Demus and J. Turchinsky in organ and composition with Turriziani Ángel Héctor Tosar. He founded the Coral Alliance Française de Montevideo and the Chamber Orchestra with whom Ars Musicæ performed concert tours in Uruguay and other Latin Latina.Becada by the French government in 1973 and 1974, he studied in Paris in electroacoustic music Groupe de Recherches Musicales with Pierre Schaeffer and the Studio de Musique Expérimentale the Centre Américain with J. Arriagada. In that city he directed in 1975, 1976 and 1977 the first music Atelier introduction to electroacoustic music Censier Cultural Center of the University of Paris and the Orchestra of the French Government Foreign Scholars. I did musical performances at the Museum of Modern Art in Paris and participated in numerous emissions France Culture in the same city film filmmaker Eva Houdova, Renée Pietrafesa, songwriter and performer, was awarded the 1984 Festival received Besanzón.En Florencio Theatre Critics Award for music Uruguayan Sophocles' Electra and was named Chevalier des Arts et des Lettres by the Ministry of Culture Francia.En 1990 was invited by the French government as a composer and as a performer and songwriter pedagoga.Participó and conductor in the Uruguay frank exchanges between France and Latin America. She was also invited to Germany by the Musikrat (German Music Council), to Italy, Spain, Brazil and Argentina.Realizó an exceptional concert on life in the Teatro Solis in Montevideo, in collaboration with UNICEF for the Uruguay funds for children at calle.Ejecutó in Paris and Rome with Maestro Luis Batlle Ibáñez universal repertoire and works of authorship. He also performed in Master Class Conservatories several concerts in France and disseminating works of Latin American composers and own works. He led European orchestras continuing his work as an educator and his work artista.Continuando Music Uruguayan Ambassador in all genres in 2000 also participated in the Festival Paris banlieues-Uruguayan Tango as the first classical pianist who plays all equally the popular music of our country and Latin Latina.Realizó concerts for Young Musicians with comprehensive participation of 600 children each Sunday fulfilling a unique educational and outreach work in Uruguay, to which his work was added in your music Workshop in the Uruguayan state television. He runs his own School of Music and Art on Fifth, on par with his job as a teacher pedagogy and practice together in the School of Música.Fundó the Youth Chamber Orchestra, another branch of the Joint Ars Musicæ Montevideo had Was she founded in 1964 whose purpose is to disseminate and chamber music in all genres and perform premieres of Uruguayan composers. Ritual premiered his works in Strasbourg, Quetzal in Manosque, organ improvisations from different cities in France and Switzerland and tributes for piano and Héctor Tosar Renée Bonnet in Paris. Performed countless theater in Uruguay and was named Francia.Fue your country 'Woman of the Year 2001 "in the category Best Musical Performance, and won the 2001 Montevideo Florencio Prize for music of the play The Forgotten Brother of Ariel Mastandrea . Morosoli he received the 2005 award from the [Lolita Rubial foundation for his career in the field of classical music. A member of the SUMC and belongs to the New Music Core. She was invited to direct the Montevideo Philharmonic Orchestra and the Symphony Orchestra of Montevideo and other SODRE Orchestras in Francia.Se they released several CDs with works of authorship, including Mutabile (Ayuí / Tacuabé), acoustic, electroacoustic and mixed music (Sondor) et piano Music instrumental and chamber music by composer camera aimed own against CNR Orchestra of Strasbourg, La OSSODRE and Montevideo Philharmonic (AGADU). founded and directs the Baroque Group Montevideo. She is the author of works of quality, recognized internationally. Defender always perform musical programs broadcast with heterogeneous comprising different styles and genres that serve the public in their daily life emphasizing the educational aspect of the same, ie for matching the needs of people today. == References == external Links == * == * Discography * recorded Works Concert...