Roberto Gaye Jones (Montevideo, January 26, 1942) is an actor and theater director of Uruguay. Is the nephew of actor John Jones. == Biography == He studied at ADEM between 1962 and 1965. Upon graduating from the EMAD formed a theater group with other young actors, Drigo by the Spanish José Estruch. His first job was in "Burla for mockery" of Lope de Rueda led by Estruch and John Jones in the role protagónico.Fue founder, director and teacher of STROKE (1977-1981), the Comprehensive Workshop Performing Arts Ministry Education and Culture (1996-2000), the Workshop of Arts (2000-2002) and the Municipal School of Dramatic Art Maldonado (1991-2005). He acted in over 40 plays in Uruguay and Argentina in 6 works. He also acted in film and television, both in Argentina and Uruguay. He also worked for the BBC ("Borges the same") and Spanish Television (Curro Jiménez). He also worked in Colombia, Paraguay and Venezuela.Durante eight years (1987-1994) he joined the National Comedy theater of stable cast of Montevideo. On April 6, 2010 was declared honorary citizen of the city of Montevideo. His last acting work on stage was in 2008 in the play "The memory of Borges' Hugo Burel directed by Álvaro Ahunchain.Está married Teresa Herrera (niece of China Zorrilla), and has three children and four nietos.Roberto Jones has been devoted exclusively from 2011 to the Directorate of classical authors such as Tennessee Williams, Anton Chekhov, Eugene O "Neill, Neil Garcia Lorca and followed Simon.Ha acting for Uruguayan television in programs such as Addictions, Canal 12 and Us, Channel 10 .'s one of the Uruguayan actors has combined his popularity as an actor in television, with artistic rigor of its successful Theatrical career. has received throughout his long and fruitful career over twenty public recognition. Among them the Distinguished Citizen City Montevideo.Junto his artistic work has also had an important political militancy always linked to nationalism left. from an early age he was a member of the Nationalist People's Movement. Complete the Tupamaros National Liberation Movement. The leader Wilson Ferreira Aldunate nacionaliesta had him as his controversial advisor Privacy Laws Amnesty for political prisoners of the dictatorship and the amnesty law, although made public its support for the so-called Green Guest habilito plebiscite that said Commission President Ley.Fue Wilsonism of Culture in 1983. Service Coordinator Municipal Theatres during the transition from dictatorship to democracy, from 1985 to 1988. Theatrical Activities Director of the Ministry of Education and Culture between 1996 and 2001. Rocha National Movement Barrios Amorin awarded him the Medal for his political and cultural work of resistance to the military dictatorship. The Board of the National Party Manuel Oribe awarded him the prize for his outstanding career and his personal contribution militanteal Nationalism uruguayo.En 2011 announced his retirement from the tables and has since worked to address. It has also abandoned his political activism, but has expressed a certain approach to the radical left composed of former communists and former Tupamaros. Most of the addresses currently performed at the Theatre Alliance of Washington Library Artigas. Has made public their student status Kabbalah and the Tree of Life and the writer Jorge Luis Borges as his mistico.Comediante on TV inspiring Fiction actor, actor, director and teacher of Dramatic Art, founder of Theatre Three Schools , cultural manager and member of the national left, have become one of the most attractive personalities and controversies of the Society uruguaya.Hijo Juan Carlos and Maria Luisa Gaye Jones, both belonging to the Uruguayan high bourgeoisie, was educated in religion Catolica. He was a member of Catholic Action, Catholic work in the Circle of Workers and his career began as an amateur actor in the Circle Theatre Assumption Parish. Debuted professionally in 1962 at the New Theatre in the work of Circular Roberto Arlt, The Desert enters the City, directed by Alfredo de la Peña and in 1963 he entered the Dramatic Xirgu Margarita Municipal School of Art. In 1965, along with eleven other fellow graduates, form the Group 65. Since the beginning of his career Jones was faced with great characters known authors. Soon Critics and Public montevideano recognize it as a revelation in 1967 and won his first award nomination Florencio. Critics Association of Uruguay as nominated five times and awarded him two Florencios best actor for his work on Breaking Codes of Hugh Whitemore and for his performance in the one-man Hugo Burel, the Memory of Borges. Iris received three awards for Best Actor Television. In closing the military dictatorship in 1977, the Margarita Jones Xirgu School, founded and directed the School STROKE, composed of teachers who had been terminated. This has the support of the Curia and subsequently the YMCA. As an actor has the distinction of being summoned repeatedly to meet early works of William Shakespeare. Among them are his performances protagónicas Romeo and Juliet and Hamlet.Preguntado on what have been considered his best performances, the actor replied that harder to do: Hamlet, The Elephant Man, Pomerance, Caligula, Camus, Breaking codes of Whitemore and Borges, Burel.Comenzó do private TV Channels, 4, 10 and 12. embodies in 1971 a popular character from the pen of George Scheck, El Flaco Cleanto. It is when, in March 1972, is arrested by the National Intelligence Directorate of the State, prosecuted by the Justice and Criminal stayed at Carretas tips. Due to the popularity of the program and the young actor, this fact becomes a true fact mediatico. The same thing happens again when, a few days of Jose Mujica assume the Presidency of the Republic, with whom Jones was imprisoned, the Montevideo gives the title of Distinguished Citizen. Descended from a family, both paternal and maternal, closely linked to Freemasonry and the Church, having fought in the nationalist left, Jones declared as a Franciscan Christian and a student of the mystical schools of antiquity, to the point to your Facebook, which is born in Eleusis. More than fifty years of theater, having held teaching since 1977 and dedicated since 2011 only the direction, away from political activism, Robert Jones is a benchmark for many young actors and considered by Critics and the Public, as one of the greatest exponents of Uruguayan dramatic Art. == ===== Theatre Awards === * Best Actor. El País for "The Knac". * Nomination for Best Supporting Actor. "Florencio" award from the Association of Theatre Critics Uruguay for "The Lion in Winter." * Award "Gold Bug" (Argentina) for best actor for "Hamlet." * Nominated for best actor. "Florencio" award from the Association of Theatre Critics Uruguay for "The Elephant Man". * Nominated for best actor. "Florencio" award from the Association of Theatre Critics Uruguay by "Paysandú (Oriental Song)." * Best Actor. "Florencio" award from the Association of Theatre Critics Uruguay by "Breaking Codes." * Best Actor. "Iris" (El País) by "The Libertine." * "Summer Sun" (Córdoba), in "Butterflies Are Free" Award. * Best Actor. Award "Florencio" === * === Cine Best Actor. Award from the Association of Theatre Critics Uruguay by "The Menoría Borges." "Iris" (El País) for "son" by Horacio Quiroga. * Best Actor. Award "Iris" (El País) == References Award for "Uruguayan champions" Adrián Caetano. ==== External links == *