Ruben Castle, better known as Ruben Castillo, was a theater director, writer, theater critic and communicator mainly radio and television Uruguayan born in the city of Rivera. His parents were teachers escuela.En 1953 as a student of architecture, in as announcer on Radio Sarandi of Montevideo. In in that station in December 1960 Discodromo starts driving, innovative radio program that was done without scripts and where listeners voted by telephone or letter different songs. The success of the program made in 1962 also began to spread through television, but with a different format, through channel 12. == == Discodromo Discodromo Show Show, as the television program called, was broadcast on Sundays at noon, with a staff orchestra directed by Julio Frade. Featuring live performances both Uruguayan musicians as extranjeros.El program gave a decisive boost to the Uruguayan music being disseminated to virtually all musicians, singers and popular music groups and rock of the 1960s and 1970s. Parallel Castillo led other programs Radio Sarandi as Parade popularity, which offered daily ranking of songs sold more houses Montevideo.A music since 1973, the program stopped airing on TV, and happened to be issued daily in the afternoons Sarandi radio. On July 9 of that year, using a poem by García Lorca, Castillo called his listeners to participate in a demonstration to protest the military coup that had been given in his país.En 1976 from Discodromo and with other Uruguayan intellectuals as Amanda Berenguer, María Inés Silva Vila, Carlos Maggi and Jose Pedro Diaz drove the very successful Book Club, who managed editing dozens of obras.Su style of sober and spontaneous radio, was always accompanied by a very careful selection musical. Ariel won the critics award from radio and television in his country and the Radio Waves Barcelona.Dentro Award instituted by his work as a theater director are outstanding versions of works by Arthur Miller, Carlos Gorostiza, Carlos Muniz, and Milan Account nortes Kundera.Publicó book, and countless newspaper articles on theater, film, and música.Falleció in Montevideo on July 13, 2002. == References ==...