Ruben García (Montevideo, February 20, 1934, Montevideo, September 5, 2013) was a Uruguayan actor and comedian, remembered for his character of The Bartender at the famous comedy show Decalegron. == Biography == Ruben Antonio Garcia Reyes was only son of Mary Esther Reyes and Antonio García.A age seven her mother listened with all serials of the time, being amazed by the voices and stories of that time. "Someday I'll be like them!" He repeated Ruben.Desde child, School n. # 90 Pedro Figari (found in the streets almost Flores General Artigas Boulevard), organized by some of his peers, teachers and director , parties Prom with representations of different works teatrales.En March 1949, just turned Fifteen, while studying at the Liceo José Pedro Varela, behind the University, learned that the tuned program in Raul Barbero CX50 Radio, did a contest looking for new figures. The award was radioteatros debut in the moment, for various stations. Although he won first place in the category interpretation, he could not make his presentation because he entered puberty and had to wait a few years to complete your change of voz.Tres years later, in 1952, the magazine launched Cancionera a contest of talent, where effort is spared in production. The final contest was held in the theater Stella Italy, under the direction of Cristina Morán and Ramiro Lopez. On occasion, Ruben Garcia recited from memory a text tango Héctor Gagliardi, reaching the coveted first prize. The second place went to another recitation-memory-José Antonio Huayek, who later enshrined as popular announcer radiotelefonía.Con few years under his belt and won two events came the biggest challenge; missed the first job in radio. Just was one of the most listened: CX16, Radio Carve, in studies in street Sadrep Mercedes 973, nearly Rio Branco. Participated as actor in all his brilliant programming, based on radioteatrales strips, covering almost fourteen hour live (from half past nine to midnight). Companies Mario Rivero, Santiago Arrieta, The Adventures of Tom Mix, White Burgess, several short and remembered Theatre news, sort of informative radioteatralizado.Paralelamente its radial performance where embodied evil characters almost always succeeded, the works themselves because of their radio hit flooded the marquees of theaters and enthusiastic audience seats, which concurred to discover the faces of the stars of the microphone. Hundreds of memorable performances were in memory: They called Juan Moreira, Oriental (Julius Caesar Armi), This is my family (with Raquel González and Alfredo Cartagena), Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves (with a great cast in Solís Theatre), the culeca (with the cast of serials Tristan Navaja Stella D'Italia), cute and dark-haired singer (with national company Armi plays Julius Caesar in the Peñarol Palace with Blanca and Hannibal Pardeiro Burgess); with them and with Walter Di Leva, toured around the National Comedy paíscon-between 1964 and 1985-1955-.En was 21 when Garcia-actor Luis Sandrini and actress Nini Marshall landed in Montevideo to develop their appearances on Radio Carve , asked his companion in the Ruben fonoplatea out own, considering it a unique professional partner. Once, Sandrini had arrived very early the CX16 Radio to test his writing Wimpi and what to do to the air at night, watching everything several times, went to Cristina Morán, cheerleader cycle and making relationship with Garcia, said: "How, and the little failed yet? Will it take long? Without it I can not begin. It is a tiny phenomenon. "The acting style of Ruben Garcia was monopolizing the serials, to other radios, running from theater to theater and setting a single event on television. It suited all casts, there was always a place for him as a leading figure, giving the level roles, never missing or being late and last but not least, reading texts once theirs was learned and sometimes the demás.El of Argentine comedian Luis Landriscina asked to accompany him on a concert tour and radial televisiva.Ruben succeeded García as a comic actor. It flooded the small screen of crazy adventures really Cacho de la Cruz and Alejandro Trotta in the noon show and Eduardo D'Angelo in The Canyons Captain, by Canal 12, with Roberto Laugh with Barry in Barry, and others by Montecarlo TV channel 4 and even sheds pioneer own channel 10, conducted by the Paraguayan player Humberto Rubin several stellar as grandparent tales, taking 22. == == Decalegrón in August 1977, when Garcia was 43 years old, his friend Eduardo D'Angelo invited him to participate in a new TV sitcom, Decalegrón "Want to work with us." The following Monday García appeared in the channel, and its passage through the comedy show would last 25 seasons: he was the only actor who was in the first show to the last, without missing any. They debuted in August 1977 and worked until 2001, reaching several auditions take 40 points rating.Su stable cast was integrated porEnrique Almada (1934-1990), Eduardo D'Angelo (1939 -), Ricardo Espalter (1924-2007 ) and Julio Frade (1943 -.-actors) with long experience in Uruguay, Argentina and Chile-Ricardo .En Espalter Decalegrón often forgot the lyrics. When that happened and fellow sequence was Garcia blew him what he had to say by way of pointer, which often made me laugh out loud all the estudio.García incarnated on TV endearing characters. The most recognized roles were:.. * The bartender "Galician" (Penarol fan and voter Colorado Party) in the sketch of bowling * pseudopolítico adviser and presidential candidate Pinchinatti (played by Ricardo Espalter) * Quack collaborator Yaburú, starring Enrique Almada.Con their fellow workers, also played in Buenos Aires, where he was invited to stay permanently. He refused and he was never sorry. == == Teatro Ruben Garcia had an extensive career in theater stages. He participated in the gatherings of 'Corner of the Movement ", the Dance Club meetings Colon (on Calle San Martín and Development, in Montevideo) with Audemar Coco Bentancur and teacher Johnny Grassi and other leading artists from Uruguay and abroad. Lived sixty years in that neighborhood Montevideo.Participó in Uruguayan films and made graphic novels for Vertigo and Dracula magazines. == Death == Ruben Garcia got cancer and died on September 5 2013.Fue buried in the cemetery of Diving . == References ==