Samuel Guillermo Eduardo lining (Montevideo, June 12, 1888 - Buenos Aires, October 16, 1925) was a playwright and lyricist fotógrafoperiodista Uruguayan tango. It was also known as Samuel Linning.Si well in his work as a playwright was not more fortunate, remained in the memory farce Delicatessen Hauss (German Bar), he wrote in collaboration with Alberto T. Weisbach because his most famous tango he premiered : Milonguita. Linnig made art criticism in Us magazine and he should also be known letter tangos Melenita gold and silver bell. == Early life == He was the son of Samuel Linnig, Belgian, and Mary Mintegueaga, Spanish and was born in 1323 Queguay (now Paraguay) streets of Montevideo. His father was a merchant and clerk of the Uruguayan caudillo Aparicio Saravia. Linning settled in Buenos Aires as a teenager and attended high school at the Central School of Buenos Aires. == His beginnings in journalism == In 1912 began working as a journalist for the newspaper La Razon as theater critic in us a known literary journal, led by Alfredo A. Bianchi, who was director of the same with Roberto F. Giusti, who had heard the coffee "Immortals" talking about Beethoven's music, poetry and dramas of Maeterlinck Georges Porto Riche. In the famous magazine published his first poems and comments about theater and art and theater tango == == Work From 1915 is his first play written in collaboration with Luis Rodriguez Acasuso, but signed with the pseudonyms of Lasalle and Field, titled the lord mayor does like that premiered at the New Theatre was a big scandal was censored municipal.El September 15, 1916 for the beneficial role of Angelina Pagano in Buenos Aires Theatre premiered precisely with his short piece the crystal glass his The fire tunic in three acts in dealing with influences of Georges de Porto Riche, about love and passion, but had not the good acogida.Tampoco Jesus had with the work and barbados released on August 9, 1918 at the National Theatre by the company Vittone and Luis Pomar Second, a melodrama that constantly played the gruesomeness of the Grand Guignol of which was the background to the German invasion of May 12 Bélgica.El 1920 in Buenos Aires Opera Theatre company premiered Vittone-Pomar farce Delicatessen Hauss (German Bar), which was written in collaboration with Alberto T. Weisbach. At the end of the function and then blows the whistle and indicated a poor reception in the public, Linnig came on stage and said, "Those who surrender applaud them and thank me whistling qualify imbeciles." Linnig had to leave the theater disguised to prevent the spectators were waiting on that representation calle.Pero Linnig brought further criticism of bitterness, the sweetness of victory. Along with the play opened at the voice of Mary Esther Podesta Milonguita tango written the verses and music Linnig Delfino Enrique Pedro. The title refers to the slang word "milonga" designates both an African American dance that is danced in the River Plate countries like the hall where dancing and by extension Linning as used in the case, the woman dancing , especially to do it in a cabaret.En one of the stanzas Linnig portraying "Milonguita" Estercitahoy call you Milonguita flower night and pleasure, luxury flower cabaret.Esa night tango had such great success that gave the author a popularity that until then had not. Linnig relapsed into another work, The Lady of the Plaza Hotel, which premiered at the Teatro Buenos Aires on September 13, 1920, by the company of Henry and Elijah Muiño Alippi fortuna.Estimulado but without the success of "Milonguita" Linnig wrote a farce that name telling the story of Esthercita Torres was released on August 25, 1922 by Esteban Carcavallo Pascual company. The poor reception of the public on the work but, fortunately for Linnig was repeated, successful tango he had composed for the same, which in this case was "Melenita gold" with music by Carlos Vicente Geronimo Flores was also repeated, as story takes a night of Carnival and love: your name dormidote asked my Pierrot, and open you eyes, in my arms, mimosa answered: ". they call me Melenita gold" had not fortune Maison Ristorini (Massage and hairpieces ) released on August 16, 1924 at the Teatro Maipo by Pierina Dealessi and Carlos Morganti. The June 10, 1925 at the National Theatre premiered his latest work, the farce Puente Alsina, which has stood its colorful description of their types and construction Linnig states that had not previously achieved. The play premiered Manolita Poli Silver Bell tango whose first verses say: The furca and a scream! . . . The neighborhood sleeps. And on his dagger bleeds the light of a lantern. . . after your whistle, maleva canyengue bell silver daddy thief. == == Linnig His personality was a peculiar figure the nightlife of Buenos Aires. Rubio, very dapper in dress, always with a cane and white gloves. A man of refined culture and at the same time, knowing the slang, loved the theater room by his great sympathy for the brave union work he had during the 1921 strike. Their passion for the game and for women was another his features característicos.Falleció the October 16, 1925 in Buenos Aires Spanish Hospital where he had been born with a high fever. He had never married and left a son. == Notes ==== References == * ISBN 950-898-081-8 * == External Links == * Video playing with Libertad Lamarque Milonguita * Full karaoke Melenita gold * * full karaoke karaoke full Milonguita silver Bell