Official Service Broadcasting, Broadcasting and Entertainment (SODRE) is a dependent institute of the Ministry of Education and Culture of Uruguay on the dissemination and generation of information, art and culture in general. It was created by Law No. 8,557 of December 19, 1929.Desde the March 3, 2010 to May 14, 2013 was chaired by Fernando Butazzoni. == History == Created as Official Service Electric Radio Broadcasting, its function initial was 'perifonear cultural and information programs ", ie, transmit' shows or performances of artistic, scientific, or entertaining illustrative purposes spiritual improvement of the country's inhabitants." The law created also tasked, among other things, "establish schools and conservatories ',' acquire and lease phonograph, theatrical, cinematic, musical or other printed material that relates to their activities ',' edit catalogs, programs or other publications', 'acting individually or in sets at the shows or auditions to perform or contribute to perform as well as in schools or conservatories to institute'. . The same law a symphony orchestra, a chamber choir, a ballet, theaters, an audio library and other departments were established Divisions == == The SODRE now has four stable bodies: Symphony Orchestra, Ensemble Chamber Music, Choir and Corps de Ballet, which the National School of Dance, three radio stations on medium wave, two in five shortwave and FM was incorporated. Museum has a Word-file the first speaker of the country that holds recordings of intellectuals, personalities from art, culture, society, politics, and a National Archive of the image that, in addition to preserving a valuable historical heritage produces films and exhibits videos.Hasta 2002 and was responsible for a television station in Montevideo (channel 5) and 18 repeaters in the rest of the country. This year Channel 5 became an independent Implementation Unit within the Ministry of Education and Culture. === Stable OSSODRE ======= ==== Corporation Director Vicente Pablo, the Symphony Orchestra of Sodre (OSSODRE) initiated operations on June 20, 1931. with 103 musicians, the body trajectory longer life in Uruguay in the official plan began. In the history of the orchestra's contribution stands Erich Kleiber. During World War II, Uruguay benefited from the arrival of teachers who lay in América.Con Kleiber conducting, Albert Wolf and Fritz Busch, OSSODRE received the distinguished visitors as Jascha Horeinstein, Paul Paray, Clement Krauss, Hermann Scherchen , Victor de Sabata, Malcolm Sargent, Arthur Rodzinsky, Nikolai Malko, Paul Klechi, Witold Rowicki, Leopold Ludwig, Wilhelm Van Otterloo, Kiril Kondrashin, Jean Martinon, Enrique Jorda, Antal Dorati and Howard Mitchell, a crisis ensued between otros.Pero with removal of most of the musicians and Lamberto Baldi was summoned to reorganize the orchestra. Following an international call, the OSSODRE reached its highest level. With the departure of Baldi, programs began to lose interest. The Studio Theater fire in 1971 was a blow to the orchestra. Thereafter, he had to try and act without fixed place in the Teatro Solis and other rooms. This led to impairments in the technical and the beginning of a period of stable address altibajos.La Juan José Castro enriched the repertoire of the twentieth century, with key contributions from De Falla, Hindemith, Stravinsky, Dmitri Shostakovich, Bela Bartok. From 1985, world-renowned directors such as Simon Blech, Jorghe Rotter, Shunji Aretani, and new names like the Mexican Eduardo Diazmuñoz, Rauss Nicolas, Nicolas Pasquet or David Machado.En Brazilian came back a later stage was appointed as director artistic Roberto Montenegro, who bowed for a much more sober and traditional than its predecessor repertoire. Illustrious visitor of this period was Leighton Smith. Then they went and Piero Gamba, director stable since 1966, David Machado. His unexpected death left a void that was able to fill in the Gamba Pattern emergencia.Miguel Marchand, hired that year as artistic director as great innovation introduced to impose the genre of opera in concert form. The rest of the repertoire was in the hands of guests like Chile or Santiago Francisco Rettig Mesa. ==== ==== Ballet With the premiere of "Night Native" Ascone Vicente and Alberto Pouyanne choreography, the dancing body Sodre offered its first show in 1935. The beginnings were modest and provided the initial impetus Pouyanne with students from your school. Ballet grew out of the creation of the Summer Theatre of Rivera Park. In one of those shows was a guest Grigorieva.En 1954 Tamara was invited to direct for several seasons Valsav Veltchek. He left some indelible titles like "Dance of the Dead" of Arthur Honegger, "Persephone" by Igor Stravinsky and used Uruguayan music in three shows: "Mburucuyá" and "The Island of Ceibos" Eduardo Fabini and 'Suite de Ballet as Figari "Jaures Lamarque Russian Pons.Otro, Yurek Shabelewski, was responsible for the direction assembling very important shows. With it came the "era of Argentine", since the national cast had disintegrated and reinforcements were needed. He turned to the ballet of La Plata. From there came Margaret Graham, Tito and Eduardo Ramírez.El Barbón 1986 was inactive until a program staged Sunday Vera, who said Satori, "Woodpecker Piazzolla" and "Portrait" by Edith Piaf. That year, with the arrival of the Soviet Vilen Galstian occurred "Don Quixote," had not been released in the country. On New Year's Argentina choreographer Adriana Coll said "Carmina Burana." In 2009 Alejandro Godoy by Rossana Borghetti were appointed Directors of Ballet SODRE performing several functions, including "El Amor Brujo" with the Symphony Orchestra SODRE with Alejandro Parente as Principal Dancer and as a guest singer Marina Heredia. Premiering renewed Adela Reta.Desde the National Auditorium March 23, 2010, the Argentine dancer Julio Bocca is the Director of line dance SODRE office to which he was appointed by Board of Directors, after the joint offer made by President José Mujica, the Minister of Education and Culture and President Ricardo Ehrlich Sodre Fernando Butazzoni. ==== ==== When starting Choir concert Symphony Orchestra was the need for a choral set to start season opera. Selected its first 60 members, the Board of Directors created Sodre Choir in 1934. September 22 of that year a concert was performed by the Lyric integrants School, under the direction of master Icilio Nini Belucchi.La first performance Coro was the July 27, 1935 with the opera La Sonnambula in honor of the centenary of the death of Vincenzo Bellini. Seven days later, on August 3, presented "Rigoletto" by Giuseppe Verdi, which alternated with La Sonnambula. The first director of the Choir was the maestro Domingo Dente. Years later I happened to Daniel Conte, Juan Protasi, Hugo Lopez, Jorge Klastornick, Rigolin Paolo, Antonio and Lilián Zetune.Numerosos Domenighini singers began their careers in rows Sodre Choir. Among them, Jose Soler, María Mercedes Morquio, Fernando Barabino, Rita Contino, Erwin Schrott and José María Siri.Está composed of 85 singers and is ready for performing great oratorios and opera. However, his repertoire includes chamber music, gospel, a cappella music, Latin American music and zarzuela. ==== ==== Chamber Orchestra in 1931, was created when the OSSODRE, felt the need to create a set of parallel to the chamber orchestra. Upon the Commission's directive Sodre Sodre Quartet was created as string quartet, composed by Oscar Chiolo (1.er. Violin), Charles Correa Luna (2nd violin), Guido Santórsola (viola) and Victor Guaglianone (cello ). On September 13 of that year held its first concert in 1933 Auditorio.En Studio pianist office was created, its first owner Mischa Jessel definitely being constituted Chamber Ensemble Sodre. Over the years this group had several integrations. The chamber music ensemble has performed numerous concerts throughout the country. ==== ==== Youth Orchestra Formed in 2011, the Youth Orchestra of SODRE is the result of the alliance between SODRE and Sistema Foundation and Children of Uruguay. Directed by Ariel Maestro Britos, consists of more than 100 young musicians. Headquartered in Adela Reta National Auditorium, where he made his Major Concert Season. === National School of Dance ballet Division ======= ==== Since its inception in 1975, the National School of Dance, ballet division, is doomed to training professional ballet dancers. Ballet classes and other essential materials for the training of future dancers are taught: repertoire, pas de deux, tips, character dance, Spanish dance, contemporary dance, choreography workshop, performing arts, anatomy, fitness, music and history dance. The length of the race is 8 years for children 8 to 11 years and 4 years intensively for males between 12 and 20 years. ==== ==== The Division folklore folklore division of the National School of Dance is responsible for preparing teachers and multipliers in the cultural field, in addition to training for stage projection, in the artistic sense and in recreation. His curriculum and program structure includes subjects attempt to cover various areas of the education of their students. Practical subjects dance (dance and malambo), subjects of theoretical support, didactic-pedagogical subjects and subjects of historical and culture training == the Cinema Arts === = December 16, 1943 the Department of Cinema art was created first official Cinematheque Uruguay, in order to "document and study the birth, progress and evolution of cinematic art (...) in all its manifestations. "The following year he started his activity with the display of classic, reaching with the passing of the years prestigious and significant filmic heritage. Their inaugural year included basic titles through structured orgánicamente.Diez years later, in 1954, generated the Cinema Arts Festival of Documentary and Experimental, biennial, which lasted until the early 1970 cycles. Festival promoted the realization national short films and contact with personalities that genre as Bert Haanstra, Herman van der Horst, Norman McLaren, John Grierson and others. Film Art Work was interrupted by a fire in 1971. Subsequently renamed Cinema Arts National Archives Image and continued with less intensity work original.En April 2010 Cinema Art resumes its activity cycle "Film 1960 "Nelly Goitiño Auditorium. Fifty years of the legendary 1960, a cycle with some of the works that led to significant developments in the history of cinema is presented. === Uruguay National Broadcasting Radio Medium Wave ======= ==== * CX 6650 Khz. Classical Radio-dedicated to classical music and opera. * CX 26 1050 Khz. Radio Uruguay-Dedicated to media and entertainment content. * 1290 AM. Issuer of mainly South-Dedicated to the dissemination of national culture ==== ==== * Frequency Modulation Babel FM 97.1 FM 96.3 FM Transmitter * FM * 92.1 Southern FM Radio Repeater Mercedes Uruguay 1050 AM 92.7 FM * Thirty three Repeater Uruguay Radio 1050 AM * 98.7 FM Radio Repeater Artigas Uruguay 1050 AM 100.1 FM * Bella Union Reptidora Uruguay Radio 1050 AM * 102.9 FM Radio Repeater Fray Bentos Uruguay 1050 AM * 103.5 FM Radio Repeater Resume Uruguay 1050 AM * 103.9 FM Radio Repeater Colonia Uruguay 1050 AM * 104.3 FM Radio Repeater Salto Uruguay * 100.9 FM 1050 AM Maldonado South Repeater Station 93.5 FM 96.3 FM * Chuy South Repeater Station 94.7 FM and 1290 AM 93.9 FM Rivera * Repeater South station 1290 AM and 106.9 FM 94.7 FM * Melo South Repeater station 1290 AM and 94.7 FM * 107.7 FM Rocha South Repeater station 1290 AM and 94.7 FM Shortwave ==== ==== * CXA April 6125 khz. * 6 CXA 9620 khz. (This frequency was first used in 1936 - Relays to CX 6) * CXA 11900 10 Khz.. (Out of service) == Halls ===== Adela Reta Auditorium Auditorium Study === Sodre worked for 40 years (between 1931 and 1971), the former Teatro Urquiza in a privileged location in the center of the city of Montevideo. Suffered a fire in 1971 and was rebuilt in 2009 reinaugurándose named Adela Reta National Auditorium. ==== ==== The Teatro Urquiza On 1 December 1903, on the campus of the northwest corner of Mercedes and Andes began construction of this theater meant to be, for 67 years, the second room Montevideo edilicios not only by their values, but also in terms of performance and público.El category developer and owner of the theater that was built Justo G. Urquiza, Uruguayan citizen residing in Buenos Aires, who, according to a letter of time "has not hesitated to devote to building the theater a considerable sum, relying drawings and construction management in person so enlightened as it is the military engineer Mr. William West, who has performed with such intelligence and exquisite taste. "was located on the corner of Andes and Mercedes where he was the Summer Theater (1890-1902). It was made with the fullness of use of architectural design art nouveau. Its construction took less than two years, inaugurated the hall on September 5, 1905 with great pomp and special significance, as was the famous French actress Sarah Bernhardt, the "Divine Sarah" as it was called then, who initiated new activities theater "La Sorciere" Victorien Sardou.El Teatro Urquiza wearing his grand facade to two floors, "chamfer" Mercedes-Andes on the corner. This was topped by a double pediment resting on two side pilasters and two columns in the middle, forming a light sunroom overlooking the "hall" of the three vain boxes into the street. In the lower iron comprehensive cover decorated by classic "interlocking" of the new art and covered by a canopy of the same metal and frosted glass opened, which enhanced the richness of access to the "foyer" of the theater. At the top of the pediment, two sculptures of women-art stagecraft allegory reclined his back against the slope of the ledge, leaving the top of the pediment to the nexus of these figures by a crown of countless laureles.Fueron companies and foreign artists and acting in the national Urquiza. In that period called "belle epoque" Ya Montevideo law No. 8,557 of December 18 and lived the best of theatrical art world acted on stage locales.El Teatro Urquiza ended his life as such in 1931. In 1929 that year, he created the Official expropriation provisions theater Electric Radio Broadcasting Service (SODRE) and. The Sodre took possession of the property in June 1931, eliminating the old name reminiscent of its owner and founder, to rename it with the name "Auditorio Sodre Study." Soon after came the transformation of the theater into the interior and exterior. ==== Study Sodre Auditorium Auditorium Studio ==== reissued the ancient splendors of "Urquiza" with its weekly concerts classical Symphony Orchestra, in sometimes it was directed by the most famous conductors in the world, especially in the early 50s on the state of public finances allowed those coming into the country of those times of great splendor directores.En opera seasons were satisfied that even by Uruguayan voices, enthusiastic lovers of opera, eager to listen live their favorite arias. Another artistic item that took an enthusiastic audience at Studio Auditorium cycles were "Cine-Art", in which they could re-issue the most famous films preserved in film archives Sodre, considered a repository of high value documental.Una painful tragedy marked the end of this theater. On the evening of September 18, 1971 Montevideo was moved by the news of the huge fire. It was the fourth time that the fire consumed one montevideano theater. The fire resulted in the room with the stage, with props and other agencies and part of the. Cinematheque also suffered heavy losses. Since then, the Auditorium Study Sodre worked temporarily in the living Goitiño Nelly (ex Joseph Brunett room) (a cinema amended) which has a capacity for 700 people, but it did not have the right conditions to house the activities of the stable artistic bodies. The complex was later completely demolished. ==== The construction of the new auditorium ==== In 1985, after democracy reinstated, the new government began planning the reconstruction of the Studio Theater. To this end an honorary commission comprising representatives of the Municipality of Montevideo, the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC), the Ministry of Transport and Public Works committee and Sodre.Esta took almost a year to resolve the place was created where going to be the new building and finally decided in late 1985 to keep the previous location, ie where they were formerly the Studio Theater and the houses running radio Sodre. For this we had to buy some adjacent land, and looking to the surface requiring a project of this naturaleza.Una time taken this decision, convened an advisory committee to develop the basis for a draft national competition. To form this committee MEC-then led by Dr. Adela Reta-requested the Society of Architects (SAU) to make a selection, a process that led to the nomination of the architects José Scheps and Rafael Lorente (child); is also added Professor Carlos Carvalho on behalf of Sodre.Fueron these professionals who were in charge of drafting the bidding documents in consultation with stable bodies of Sodre, to expressions of other artists joined national call to destacados.El public tender and was national, was held in September 1986 and included the participation of 51 contestants. In February 1987, the jury, composed of architects Clorindo Testa (by MEC), Mariano Arana (by SAU) and Antonio Cravotto (for contestants), unanimously elected the project composed of Jorge di Pólito study Diego Magnone Isidore Singer and Juan Carlos Vanini.Automáticamente was hired to develop the blueprint, a phase did it take 10 months. Then came the final design stage, where he worked on and working drawings and finally the budgeting phase. In May 1988 it became the international call for tender for the construction of the complex, which won the signing Álvaro Palenga sauna once the construction company of choice, the November 15, 1989 the contract was signed and work began a few days before the national elections that year, and on the end of the first term of former president Julio Maria held Sanguinetti.Se spoke of a cultural complex of 25,000 square meters which included three theaters, their rehearsal rooms for musicians, for the choir, for the Corps de Ballet; had also provided spaces for the production of scenery and paint shops, shoe and peluquería.En 1990 the process of building the new auditorium Sodre lost vigor. Until that time he had made little progress, had barely made the excavation and part of the structure. In 1995 the project Sodre regained some vigor he had lost in previous years. Thus, all contracts were updated and the movement works again. The impulse was medium in 1995, very strong in 1996 and 1999 strongly 1998.En room C of the complex, called Hugo Balzo, opened with space for 300 spectators. Further works were well advanced of dressing and rehearsal rooms. In 2001 a small capital injection was performed with the aim of presenting the opera Aida in the main room, called Eduardo Fabini, with capacity for 2000 espectadores.Para that occasion had to the enclosure of the audience, what technicians call the "rustic enclosure." This means that, according to the architects responsible for the project, the space where the presentation was made Aida did not differ much in their conditions of a basketball stadium: missing all terminations, people were sitting on concrete bleachers, chairs temporary that had been rented. However, despite these limitations, this instance allowed at least close the building and finish the facade, roof and slab. ==== ==== New Studio Theater in 2006 was given a new impetus to the work, after the Ibero-American General Secretariat, by Enrique V. Iglesias, commit funds for culminación.El November 21, 2009 the new Auditorium Adela Reta, a complex of 25,000 m² is partially opened. It has a main hall of 2000 seats designed for opera, symphony and ballet performances. His pit can accommodate more than 100 musicians, is organized into three modules and has an automated lift. El, the largest in the country, the scene has a height of 27 m and a mouth that can reach adjustable scene 15,50 m wide by 12 m high.The complex has a second room, smaller, intended for and experimental chamber music repertoire, with the necessary technical flexibility so that it can be transformed to convenience. In addition, there are modern rehearsal rooms, workshops with industry located in three double-height levels for the production and realization of stage productions and characterization intérpretes.Por other hand, has an amphitheater, exhibition areas and sectors 'foyers' and cafés. The building has special acoustic characteristics throughout its construction, especially the inner hub containing galerías.Durante stage and the last two years, Adela Reta Auditorium has hosted the most distinguished contemporary artists, both classical music and lyric , ballet and polular music. Among others, Bobby acted McFerryn, Yo Yo Ma, Sol Gabetta, Mary Noel Ricceto, Barry Douglas, El Cigala, Bebo Valdés, Daniel Viglietti. === === Goitiño Auditorio Nelly Nelly Goitiño The auditorium is an old movie theater (Brunet hall) located on Avenida 18 de Julio 930, in downtown Montevideo which was transformed into a cultural complex with a central hall, a small theater, a rehearsal room and an unconventional space for various cultural events. The main hall has 547 seats on three levels with a lift for public access. The hall was reopened on August 9, 2008 == References == * El Espectador. Whatever happened to the works of the Auditorium Sodre * Pablo Montero Zorrilla: 1905-1971 * Urquiza Uruguay reopens the theater complex Sodre victim of a fire in 1971 == external Links == * Official Site * CX SODRE Radio Classic FM 6-98.7 - Official Site * CX 26-97.9 FM Radio Uruguay - Official Site * South Station 94.7 FM - Official Site * 97.1 FM Babel - Unofficial official site * Monograph - 1927-1928: CWOA, early state broadcaster of Uruguay * unofficial site - history Sodre shortwave...