El Taller Torres García was created as South School by Joaquin Torres Garcia in 1942 in Montevideo. It functioned as a workshop and collective teaching art and painting based on the constructive Universalism. Because of the great highlights of his students and followers, the workshop became a leading art movement with Uruguayan identity == History == left |. Thumb | 300 px | Lesson in the Taller Torres García, Montevideo, 1935 1947.En Joaquin Torres García created the Association of Constructive art, worked as a center of art studios in charge until 1940.'s January 26, 1943 the first meeting of the Taller Torres García (TTG) was held in the premises of the street Abayubá 2763 Montevideo. In July of that year, Torres García announces their students as unique workshop practice a painting based on the line, geometry and golden color flat structure, where each student will make their personal research but without departing from the premise.: in September 1943 exhibition Plastic perform constructive elementaristic at the Ateneo de Montevideo, during the inauguration of the workshop students distributed flyers with the manifest constructivista.Entre workshop students were: July U. Alpuy, Elsa Andrada, Dayman Antunez, Gonzalo Fonseca Hector Ragni and children of Augusto and Horacio teacher among several otros.En 1945 July Alpuy started teaching in the TTG torresgarcianas according to the instructions of his teacher and the Permanent Exhibition Hall was opened in the basement of the Library Salamanca.En 1946 local education moved to the basement of the Ateneo de Montevideo, the inaugural exhibition included 52 artists with more 500 obras.Alpuy was in charge of classes after the death of Joaquín Torres García in 1949. José Gurvich in 1951 started teaching, and so did Augusto and Horacio Torres, Manuel Pailos and Gonzalo Fonseca. From the beginning they made numerous exhibitions, publications and outreach constructivism. In 1967 finished workshop activity in the basement of the Athenaeum, which became the headquarters of the Museo Torres García before located on Avenida 18 de Julio 1903. In 1975 the Ateneo ended the contract with the museum and finished the activity until the reopening of the new headquarters of the museum in the Old City of TTG members Montevideo.Los continued taking painting classes according to constructivist precepts in their own workshops to the late twentieth century. == == Remover From 1945 until May 1950, the TTG edited the magazine remover. 26 bimonthly issues then two special issues, one in December 1950 and another in August 1953 were published. Was read the magazine edited by Torres García "Circle and Square", but in this case by the members of the workshop as diffuser body the activities performed and the enactment of constructivist teaching. Editing was by Guido Castillo and Torres García own. == Members == Workshop A whole generation of Uruguayan artists was formed in TTG either directly or Torres García master artists who succeeded in their collective enseñanzas.Como performed 28 of the 35 murals flag Martirené Hospital Saint Bois in 1944. == References ==...