The Politeama theater, city of Montevideo (Uruguay) is located in the semi-pedestrian street Tomás Berreta streets of that city between Florencio Sánchez and Thirty Three. == History == It was inaugurated on March 26, 1921. His name comes from the Greek, which means many cops and teama themes; ie: many subjects. This room has lived up to its name since it opened because it is presented from opera, operetta, theater performances, concerts, cultural events, film screenings, lectures, exhibitions and acrobatic gymnastics and boxing competitions. Successful hosted dances and circuses important it was presented as the scenario, removable, left in a sand track. 250px | miniaturadeimagen | Facade Politeama250px | miniaturadeimagenLa room construction began in 1919 when members of the company that managed the Cinema Columbus, seeing the number of visitors increased, bought the vacant lot that was in front of the panel in order to build a more spacious and comfortable room. Initially had a capacity of 750 seats and its complete facilities allowed it to be presented in major national and international companies. "Integrated the Company, Don Angel Romano, Don Bernardo Grolero, my grandfather Don Antonio Monserrat Reig and my father Don Antonio Monserrat Casamiquela "((Excerpt from the book: Almost a century of Cinema and Theater in Central - Hector Antonio Monserrat Machin)) == First reopening == As part of the celebrations for the bicentennial of Canelones city in 1983, the hall was were acquired by the Municipality of Canelones reinaugurando it on 17 December of the same año.En this gala acted Municipal Band Tala (Dir. Cesar Camejo) Abroad Theatre (Dir. Hector Gamba), the Municipal Choir (Dir . Kidie D'Elia), and Ballet Folklorico Municipal (Eduardo Barca - solo) accompanied by the Municipal Orchestra, the same under the direction of Dalmiro Jover.En August 2013 the theater is closed for building reforms == References =. Book = -. Nearly A Century of Cinema and Theater in Gauteng-Hector Antonio Machin Monserrat == external links ==