The name Uruguay theater refers to theatrical activity in Uruguayan territory from colonial times to the present day and is part of their cultural history. == == Creole circus has its origins in the mid-seventeenth century ranging from circuses town to town raising their tents and stables where European companies representing traditional musical theater. In the eighteenth century mode criollo circus, circus acts that combined with Creole manners skits, sketches, musical performances and dance, theater emerged as first manifestation of local character and tradition continued into the twentieth century, mainly in Argentina with Podesta. == == House Comedy House Comedy brothers, opened in 1793, was the first theater room Montevideo. There scenes of Spanish classics and works of universal repertoire is represented, with works of Shakespeare, Lope de Vega and Calderon de la Barca. Leading actresses of the time were Trinidad Guevara and Petronila Serrano and the first Spanish actor Juan Quijano.Las national works released in the House of Comedies were the most unblemished loyalty and Buenos Aires of Juan Francisco Martinez avenged in 1908 and Feelings of a patriot Bartolomé Hidalgo in 1816, who was then the head of the institution. == == theaters Big in 1840 a company with 156 shareholders created to build an opera house in Montevideo and began the task of choosing ground and the first projects for construction, although the years of independence war and civil strife delayed tasks. Just finished the Great War the construction of the Teatro Solís was completed by providing all Montevideo society. The official opening was on August 25, 1856, in the presence of President Gabriel Antonio Pereira, with the representation of the opera Ernani by Giuseppe Verdi.En 1857, Progress Theatre opened in the city of Mercedes, destroyed by fire in 1938 and current Theatre 28 1882 febrero.En Larrañaga Theatre opened in the city of Salto by presenting only child by Italian company Cartocci.En 1876 Progress Oreste Villa Teatro Paysandú (current Florencio Sánchez Theatre Paysandú) rose on backdrop to the first performance of La morte civile Paolo Giacometti.En 1892 in Villa Independencia local theater (now Michael Young Theatre Fray Bentos), which would be called "Oxilia Theatre" in honor of the Uruguayan tenor opened José Oxilia, who triumphed in 1905 Milán.En the first presentation in the Teatro Urquiza was performed with Sarah Bernhardt performing La Sorciere by Victorien Sardou.En Theatre opened on 1910 May 25, 1912 in Rocha and Macció Theatre in San Jose de Mayo, and worked from the Valbona 1873.La Theatre presentation of numerous international opera companies that were performed on these scenarios, with figures such as Enrico Caruso, Tito Schipa, Titta Ruffo, Amelita Galli-Curci, Luisa Tetrazzini and Adelina Patti, generated turn internal circulation of codes and local performers. == == national playwriting early twentieth century domestic drama appears, with authors such as Florencio Sanchez and Ernesto Herrera, who created characters of local rural and urban world. Brussa mostly disseminated by Carlos and his cast, who roamed the theaters inside the country representing their works as well as Spanish, Argentine and world authors. == == National Comedy Driven by Justino Zavala Muniz in 1947 formed the Comedy national, under the Municipality of Montevideo, with the first permanent company dedicated to the dissemination of national authors. His first performance was The Lion blind Ernesto Herrera. In 1949 Margarita Xirgu made her directorial debut with the official cast of La Celestina by Fernando Rojas.En 1952, with the presentation of Blood Wedding by Federico Garcia Lorca debuted at the National Comedy Estela Medina, sharing the stage with Margarita Xirgu, Maruja Santullo and China Zorrilla. The greatest success of the National Comedy, with more than 80,000 spectators, was the staging Processing Pattern 1040 Juan Carlos, released in 1957 under the direction of Alberto Candeau. == == Independent Theatre In 1937 the first group appears independent theater, the Teatro del Pueblo, followed by the Warehouse in 1949 and then appeared Circular Theatre, Theatre Club and the Shed, among others. In an aesthetic and social search that differed from the official cast, in 1947 the Uruguayan Federation of Independent Theatres is created. == == Exile and censorship The heyday of independent theater suffered a crisis during the civil-military dictatorship in Uruguay (1973-1985), the cast of the Shed was exiled and the Mask and the Shed censored and national Legido vigilancia.Autores as Juan Carlos, Carlos Maggi, Bruno Jorge Andres Castillo and Armengo Font, among others, continued to have presence on the stages of the National Comedy and Theatre independiente.Desde Circular theater contributed to the complaint with works of social criticism cleverly camouflaged as adapting rifles Mrs. Carrar Bertolt Brecht under the title of rifles older and more openly with Operation Slaughter Rodolfo Walsh Argentine homeland, disappeared in Buenos Aires in 1977. in the 1970s highlighted the performances of Medina Estela Estela Castro and the National Comedy. In 1979 debuts in The Circular Gulls do not drink oil and Carlos Manuel Varela Monkey and his shadow Yharo Sosa. In 1980 the hall of the French Alliance released The vacuum guest Ricardo Prieto, with performances and Luis Enrique Guarnero Cerminara.En 1979 Hugo presents several titles Blandamuro comedy humor, with actors like Ricardo Espalter, Eduardo D'Angelo and Cristina Morán . premiered in 1981 at the Teatro Circular the blacksmith and the death of Mercedes Rein and Jorge Curi, critical and commercial success, to remain in the lineup until 1986. Doña Ramona in 1982 Victor Manuel Leites debuts at Teatro Circular, where power relationships between members of a family become a metaphor for the situation in Uruguay during the crackdown. == == return to democracy in 1985 from the atmosphere of political freedom the return to democracy emphasizes the reopening of the Teatro the Shed with the presentation of General Artigas Milton village Schinca and Ruben Yanez, with the direction of the Cioppo Atahualpa and César Campodónico. As the reappearance of Mauritius Rosencof after years of imprisonment, with the sack of Antonio in the Theater of Notaries, the premiere of Salsipuedes Alberto Restuccia Theatre One and innovative staging of his work Álvaro Ahunchaín How to dress a Dear Miss Consuela premiered adolescente.Se and in 1986 Agustini or lady Knosos Sarlós Edward Theatre in Notariado.Por its part, the National Comedy marked preference for universal theater, staging works such as Mephisto by Ariane Mnouchkine , life is a Dream by Pedro Calderon de la Barca and giant mountain Pirandello in 1988 Larreta.En Antonio version was premiered at the Theater in Anglo Who's Afraid of Italy Fausta?, part concert of Brazilian coffee Miguel and Ricardo Magno de Almeida, starring Petru Valenski public with such success that led to the creation of the Theatre Company Italia Fausta by Omar Varela. The work was on show over 10 years and was seen by over 250,000 viewers in 6 countries. That same year debuted in The Circular Ah, guys!, With text by Roberto Fontanarrosa directed by Franklin Rodríguez.Otras prominent figures are Marcelino Duffau, Walter Reyno, Jorge Denevi, Imilce Viñas, Robert Jones, Nidia Telles, Graciela Rodriguez Delgrossi Diego, among many others. == == current Era in the 1990s, Ricardo Prieto ventures into creating authentically popular montevideanos characters. Drizzle debuts at the Teatro de la Candela in 1992, Lovers in the Theater Center in 1994 and the good life in The Seagull in 1998.A from 1995 appear in new playwrights and directors scene as Uruguayan Rachel Diana, Mariana Percovich, Roberto Suarez, Margarita Musto, Lupe Barone, Sergio Blanco, Sebastián Bednarik and Veronica Perrotta, among many otros.Actualmente Uruguay has more than 70 theaters, over 30 in Montevideo, and numerous non-traditional spaces, which are presented works of authors national and universal theater adaptations, a variety of genres. To which the opera seasons Solís Theatre and the presentation of international companies add == See also == * Annex. Theatres Montevideo * Official Service Broadcasting, Broadcasting and Entertainment * Florencio Award ==== References == external links ==