The commonly known Summer Theatre is one of the most notable centers shows Montevideo, both for its location and how their environment characteristic architecture. The theater has more than 65 years of existence, and through him both national and international, as well as being the stage upon which the official contest Uruguayan carnival is celebrated shows have elapsed. == History ===== First location = == Its construction started in 1954 and ended in the Municipal Theatre 1956.El Summer Rodó Park opened. Work that had been entrusted to the architect Julio César Giacosa, then official of Ministry of Education and Culture of Uruguay. The two main aspects that he faced were the perfect view of the stage no matter the location of the viewer and noise as the dome would be metal, so decided to put an inner cone of special features. At the opening concert offered by the Symphony Orchestra directed by Carlos Estrada Sodre. === === Transfer In the early 60s, began the re-location of the theater in the Parque Rodo, despite the opposite view of arquictecto who argued that he had not complied with specially designed acoustic structure. === name === in 1986 the theater was renamed Summer Theatre "Ramón Collazo" in tribute to this iconic character carnival uruguayo.Pocos characters so identifiable with Montevideo as Ramón "Loro" Collazo. He was born on the street Camacuá, full Old City, South Quarter, January 25, 1901. Pupil Carnot College, where he met with Victor Soliño, he forged a close friendship which only death could truncar.No could finish off his studies by losing his father, which imposed a brief period as storekeeper. I played the piano by ear at first but then tomólecciones that were no more than a couple of años.Se inspired the name of a famous luxury liner to create your first tango and so titled "Giulio Cesare", dedicating it to shipping agent in Montevideo Mr. Antonio Piaggio, hoping it was played by the orchestra on board. Then wrote "Furball" to the 1924 contest sponsored by the magazine, "Uruguayan World", obtaining the second premio.No tango was his first success. In 1925 he wrote a maxixa, premiered at the cafe Avenida (Avenue July 18 esq. Branco River) by the orchestra of José D. Pecora. It was called "Mulata mine." Be noted that earlier, about the music and wrote the lyrics drew the cover of the sheet music and the Radio "Day" played in the piano and sang. I get in the course of the great events in the same genre, musical expression from Brazil today is not cultivated. "The buzzer" and "Snow White" Unveiled several tangos, including the excellent "You'll be back" to create an issue that was dedicated to Rosita Quiroga: "Pato". It was his first famous tango. Meanwhile, Ramon Collazo dedicated to the Athenians lived where he was also an actor and Trouppe priceless "Oxford" for presentation at the carnavales.Señala Soliño Victor in his "Life, Passion and Death of the Athenian Troupe" that the first presentation of the famous clustering was performed on 21 September 1923 in the theater Urquiza. There, Ramon Collazo characterized as Mistinguett was showcased famous singing shimmy parody "I can not live without love" in the play called "Tut-AnkhAmón." Encouraged by the public and critics traveled to Buenos Aires to present the same show at the Casino Theatre on 11 October 1923.Si good personality Ramón Collazo is inseparable from the representation and the Carnival from the creation of the Troupe "Oxford ", we need to return to the tango. being" Pato "exclusive repertoire of the company Victor in Buenos Aires was not recorded by Carlos Gardel. but the great singer he did in Barcelona. in Spain circulated that record, but did not the Rio de la Plata. We met many years after the tragic death of our ultimate interpreter cancionero.La happy inspiration of Ramón Collazo and Roberto Fontaina is mirrored in 1929 with "Mama, I do want a boyfriend" who met in a personal interpretation of Alberto Vila. The following year Fernán Silva Valdés collaborated with Collazo with splendid evocative verses for "florida Water", the first interpreter was also Alberto Vila. So we arrived at this musical chronology to 1930, where two enduring tangos. "Goodbye my neighborhood," premiered on the night of February 27, 1930, when the immortal verses of Victor Soliño were sung by the Oxford Trouppe tears and emotion embargoed interpreters and this crowd. It was an emotional farewell to what "the fatal ax of progress" as the letter says, transformed in just a melancholy recuerdo.A this point another important event occurred in the artistic life of Ramón Collazo. To mark the centenary of the Jura of the Constitution of 1830 traveling to Buenos Aires to record discs Uruguayan National Odeon artists. The singer Alma Reyles, the singer Manuel Echarte, the troupe "Athenian" and a tango orchestra directed from the piano by Ramón Collazo. "We traveled by train fun" we would say many years later the brand manager. The group gave the following lineup: Ramón Collazo (piano), and Alcides Bordoni Raul "Rudy" Ayala (violins), Héctor Gentile and John Spera (bandoneon), Hector Liacci (cello) and Guillermo Peña (singer). At that time left six themes for the story, including "Araca Paris", the same as Carlos Gardel immortalized that related carnival 1931 año.En troupe "Oxford" will again include a tango in its repertoire introducing an expression jacket with ranchera "the Tyrant", an original fox they called "Black melody", a song that is chanted for years at parties, "Carnaval" and finally a pleasant tango melody "Moon jacket." All production was shared Soliño.Los Collazo and verses of "Moon jacket" are very original structure in the fruitful career of Victor Soliño and are within our preferidos.Ha she passed the stage of trouppes carnival. The "Athenians" for years still appear sporadically some springs. But Ramón Collazo is not idle. It looks auditioning radio CX 16. Creator gender "parodies" takes a carnival "The parodies of chocolate" prestige with his music "Comedians bitumen" and "musical moment".'s August 17, 1938 was released in film "Ambassador" the Uruguayan film "Single'm happy," reasoned and directed by Juan Carlos Edmundo Bianchi and pattern. The main actors were Ramón Collazo and Alberto Vila with actress Mirta Reid. Except Tango "Spring sinflores" with music by Lalo Etcheghoncelay, Ramon Collazo brought their issues, as all letters were Patrón.En Bianchi and 1941, the orchestra of Francisco Canaro records its gaucho tango "white flies" sung by Carlos Roldán. A year later the same cast made known the Mexican corrido "Rosalie." We had the privilege to meet and treat Ramón Collazo. His nervous and petite figure agigantaba when he was speaking. Imitations, the occurrence of their outputs, their people skills made him an unforgettable character. Date of departure, July 16, 1981. Else going with a large piece of Montevideo, but happily lives in his music that is always with us. === === Reforms begun the XXI century, the theater looked wear for use with over the years. It was then that the Montevideo Municipal Intendenca decided to start with a complete renovation and addition to the original structure repair, upgrade and modernize the technical conditions offered to artists and espectadores.En July 2006 the architect Carlos Pascual was commissioned to make a diagnosis state Theatre. This resulted in a new design for the stage. The construction system developed by engineer Eladio Dieste was used for the dome. The cost of this investment was about 5 million pesos uruguayos.El, opened the new dome. For this occasion the show Murga Mother with routin and Eduardo Pablo Lombardo, directed by Fernando Toja offered. == Features == The theater is located in the Parque Rodó barrio, with the promenade. It is an outdoor theater. Surrounded by canteras.La cover scenario consists of reinforced ceramic technology developed by engineer Eladio Dieste == == Concert Theatre has been the site of numerous concerts by national and international artists, including:. = = References ==== external links == * Summer Theater - Official Website * Summer Theatre - Theatre Photos * Summer Theatre - theater location on OpenStreetMap [[Category:... Theatres Montevideo | Summer Ramón Colla = = References ==== external links == * Summer Theater - Official Website * Summer Theatre -. theater photos * Summer Theatre -. theater location on OpenStreetMap....