The Teatro Circular de Montevideo (Uruguay) is the first circular Latin theater (the first global installation was in Dallas, Texas, and was limited to a single lounge chairs), founded on December 16, 1954. Located in Avda . Rondeau 1388 (corner Pza Cagancha), in the basement of the building Ateneo de Montevideo. == ===== Early history === the original idea of founding this theater was Edward Malet, theater director, who (under the growing boom in independent theater, which began in 1937 with Teatro del Pueblo) thought of organizing a theater group (then made by him, Hugo Mazza, Gloria Levy, Solomon Melamed, Manuel Campos and Eduardo Prous among others) to work below the Ateneo de Montevideo inspired theater system circular.Creado the Teatro Circular de Montevideo, born with him the disapproval of some people in the theatrical field, who defended the classical fourth wall and theatricality did not conceive the fact that actors will give back to the audience. As Andrés Castillo would say: "It is worth recalling a paragraph from one of the first criticisms garnered Teatro Circular:" While traditional theater is in complete decay, do not believe that the Circular Theatre return to the early roots of drama, but that is just another of the experiments with those carried by the film remain as snobs forms of an age of anxiety in seeking revolution Art. "" the news that would be a circular theater are listed by Andrés Castillo as the following: "1) Lacking backdrop without pointer possible and with at least four sections of the audience had to contemplate getting out of the traditional canons of theater" Italian. (...) Destroyed the myth of the theater front, tore and the famous "fourth wall" that, as illusory, separating the stage from the audience and was scrupulously respected in puestas.2) The proximity of the public "... approached, almost gathered, the actor with the audience and viewers themselves to each other, "the actors with their backs to the viewer" and supporting their eyes nailed to the espalda.3) "practice showed that all the warnings were exaggerated and that right ... after a habituation of both parties ... it was another way to do theater, filled with immediacy, naturalness and freshness ... "which, among other benefits, came many new viewers." throughout its history were repeatedly the Teatro Circular received Florencio Sánchez Prize theatrical criticism (for the cherry Orchard by Chekhov (1967), and Lorenzaccio of Alfred de Musset (1968), directed by Omar Grasso, Arlecchino, servant of Two patterns, Goldoni (1970), directed by Villanueva Cosse; The blacksmith and death (1981) and The Colonel No One Writes (1988), both versions of Mercedes and Jorge Curi Rein directed by the latter) and staging (by Doña Ramona Victor Manuel Leites, directed by Jorge Curi (1982) and Carlos Maggi fruits, directed by Stella Santos (1985)). In addition, in 1981 he won the Hermes Award; in 1983 awarded by the CELCIT Ollantay and Ateneo de Caracas; and in 1991 the Bambalina in the VI Ibero-American Festival of Cadiz. Parallel participated in numerous Latin American festivals (Córdoba and Rosario in Argentina, Brasilia, Londrina and Pelotas in Brazil, Caracas, Manizales, Bogota, Canary Islands, Cadiz) and conducted numerous tours === News === Currently, more. 55 years of independent activity (akin to the principles established by the Federation of Independent Theatres Urugaya) and after passing a "hard test during the previous years of the military dictatorship, which would be more severe once the de facto regime in place, a shrewd strategy repertoire allowed him to play the dual role of sounding board for the concerns of the subject people and polo resistance against repression, without neglecting the aesthetic requirements of generally recognized artistic level. "the Circular Theatre Montevideo activity continues almost unchanged. Having a stable cast of actors trained in his school, is one of the most important theaters of the Uruguayan capital. == == The Circular Theatre Salas has two rooms. Room 1 is the room that gives name to this theater, is circular, and the audience surrounds four separated by small hallways (all four are used for input of characters on stage, sectors and one of them also at the entrance public to the room). Conference Room 2 (unlike Hall 1 by which you enter through the front door) has its entrance next to the front door. It is a rectangular space that depending on work is where the audience is located. == College == In 1968 a School of Dramatic Art will open in Circular Theater to form actors that would become part of their regular cast (Moré, Paola Venditto, Denise Daragnes, Gustavo Bianchi, etc.) or would enter the (Jorge Bolani, Gloria Demassi, Isabel Legarra) National Comedy; continue an independent career in the medium itself (Ricardo Couto, Lucio Hernández) or outside (Ademar Bianchi and Francisco Napoli in Buenos Aires, Joselo Novoa in film and theater Venezuela, Liliana Garcia in Chile); or engaging in preference to the direction and dramaturgy (Luis Vidal, Fernando Toja, John Grana). This school would close in about 1993. Currently the school operates with a group of students and future members of the regular cast, it reopened in 2013 but there will be another generation more than the 13 '. Parallel to school work approach to theater workshops. ==== References == External Links == * [http://www.teatrocircular.org.uy] Circular Theatre website. * [Http://www. ..! infouruguay.com.uy / THEATRE-CIRCULAR.htm] * [http://futiweb.blogspot.com/2009/03/futi.html] <- Enter below the category names and delete the template Example: categorizes the article in lakes and rivers. If you do not know or simply stop confusing template --->