Bartholomew Macció Theatre is a traditional theater hall of the Uruguayan town of San José de Mayo. It is the most architecturally important building maragata capital. In 1984, the Ministry of Education and Culture declared it a historic monument in Nacional.Ubicado corner of July 18 and May 25. It has a capacity for 700 spectators distributed in a format typical horseshoe opera house in Italy. Highlights include a Murano glass chandelier and plush Italian backdrop originales.En room Eduardo Carvajal plastic works of national artists are exhibited in the room and Rafael Sienra congresses, conferences and various presentations are made. == History == After the death Bartholomew Macció Italian landowner in 1909, his widow and children decided to honor him with the construction of this theater. Of the three projects presented is chosen, the architect Leopoldo Tossi.El the full project included, in addition to the theater, a building for Revenue Administration, Postal, Telegraph and Telephone and upstairs a Musical and Fitness Institute Sala de Armas. the total work should be extended in front of the Plaza, from may 25 to Thirty Tres.Del original project was built only the theater, which had a cost of $ 75,800, the rest, perhaps for economic reasons due suspenderse.Fue opened 5 June 1912 with a dissertation poet Juan Zorrilla de San Martin and a concert conducted by Luis Sambucetti.Una chronicle "the Fair" read "at 9:30, the look of the room was simply superb dazzle. :. Boxes, plate, pot (...) the beauty of the woman maragata (...) radiant light (...) polychrome costumes (...) environment distinction "no lack glowing terms like this: "in the true temple of art, where we combine the beautiful with the necessary, comfortable with elegant, confirmed when we look at the fine details, do not forget that Italy were imported the backdrop in which the theatrical tradition of all is given the set, like the Murano glass chandelier, with its 96 dazzling lights, all rooms contain this breath of wealth and taste typical of an era in art is its greatest joys. "by 1956 the cinema was at its peak and slack theater forced to close because he was in very bad condiciones.En 1959 Macció descendants of the family sold the building to the then Banco San José, and this is donated to the Municipality of San José . The deterioration of the building to the closure between 1965 and 1973, during his rehabilitation and restoration was undertaken. Under the departmental Chalela governorate in 1971 and then with that of Pianzzola and a neighborhood committee begins to restore the building of great architectural beauty, under the direction of architect Oscar Ramos; reinaugurándose on August 24, 1973. since then has maintained its activity with local, national and international works, which positioned him as one of the most active país.En 2009 Mayor Juan Chiruchi called for tenders to set it up, at a cost of $ 3 million. It was reinaurado on February 13, 2010 with the presence of national and departmental authorities and leading figures of the national culture. == == Artists Countless national and international personalities have taken to the stage in the hundred years of life in this theater. It was the last place where Carlos Gardel acted on Uruguayan soil, before his tragic end. He also had the presence of other major cultural figures, such as the Nicaraguan poet Rubén Darío, tenor José Oxilia, Margarita Xirgú, Carlos Brussa, Victor Damian, Francisco Canaro, Enrique Santos Discépolo, Tita Merello, Atahualpa Yupanqui, Luis Sandrini and Malvina Pastorino, Ariel Ramirez Misa Criolla, Norma Aleandro, Graciela Borges, Rodolfo Bebán, Luis Batlle Ibañes, China Zorrilla, Antonio Gasalla, Pepe War Larbanois - Carrero, Estela Medina, Gaston Ciarlo submissions for the Warehouse Theatre, the National Comedy , Ballet and Symphony Orchestra SODRE, and many others who in recent years have been present in the Macció Theatre, for every time the curtain goes up, the magic of the show is renewed. == commemorating the Centenary Gala == More hundred and fifty people worked for months to realize the artistic proposal called Macció Centennial Gala theater in 2012. a multifaceted team, composed of municipal, creative, technical, actors, musicians, dancers, choreographers, costume designers, makeup artists officials and sound engineers, prepared a show designed especially for the occasion, who had over 70 artists performing escena.La six documentary videos in which the historical process is discussed Macció theater was one of the faces of espectáculo.Contó with the involvement of some officers casts, such as the Municipal Choir, Ballet Folklorico de San José and Departmental Group Tango House of Culture. == References ==== external links ==