Ugo Ulive (Montevideo, November 25, 1933 born Ulive Hugo Melgar, is a theater director, actor, playwright and novelist of Uruguayan origin who later adopted the nationality venezolana.Comenzó his radio career as an actor at an early age in his hometown . was Determined to continue his acting career became part of the acting community of independent theater in Montevideo. There, seduced by the rather than performance management Ulive develops his talent director of theater and Lighting. parallel explores the world film by conducting several short film projects 1961 duración.En part to Havana, where he directs the National Theater of Cuba, continuing their inclinations founded by film and also the "National School of Dramatic Arts", where she teaches several years.After a brief stint in Montevideo (1966-1967) Ulive is invited to work in Caracas within the independent theater for a period of three months. This period lasts for years, with Caracas your current place of residence. There Ulive Ugo continued his passion for theater direction and lighting, cinema, drama and more recently written novel. In 1993, he received the National Award Ulive Theatre, recognizing higher value of Venezuela. == Biography ===== Getting Started === Ugo Ulive discovers the theater and the art of declamation from an early age. Back in school, from first grade, was selected to represent their group in order to show the school year. In addition, contact with the recitation was continuous, as his cousin, Juan Carlos Carrasco known actor best known as "the Yiye" declaimed a poem in each meeting familiar.Su cousin "the Yiye" took him to see several shows theater, opera, ballet. Prominent among these presentations and Alejandro Sakharoff Clotilde, who many years later inspired his first novel. That's how Ulive Ugo was discovering the theater dramático.Luego texts and art, in October 1946, accompanied by his mother, participates in an audition to join the cast of child Sunday radio "Company operettas and farces teacher Orejon "directed by Fernando Orejon. It was immediately accepted, was 12 years.Customised later that year Ugo Ulive participates in his first play, titled "Carnation" by José Serrano and directed by Master Orejon. Back to the radio, the "Company operettas and farces Orejon teacher" program undergoes several gradual changes until completely anulación.En 1948, at the age of 15 years, the initiative of its cousin "the Yiye" Ugo is Ulive invited to participate in the "People's Theatre" in assembling the work of the king of the mailman Tagore, directed by actor and director of the group, Manuel Domínguez Santamaría.La work was presented precariously on 14 January 1949, which initiated a new stage, the independent theater actor. Start taking acting classes with the group manager, who happens to be his first teacher. A few years later, participates in the assembly of "Poor people" Florencio Sánchez.Ya to those years "People's Theatre" joint efforts with the grouping of 'The Island' theater group to realize a space headquarters of both companies . This initiative leads through a slow, troubled and checkered process towards the establishment of a group of people eager to do theater, which officially formed from the time the institution The Warehouse Theatre. === Years in The warehouse ======= ==== Officially Actor room the warehouse was released on December 4, 1951 with the play "Heroes" of GB Shaw the poster, Ulive was 18. About six months later presented "The Ravine" Gregory of Lafarrère directed by Andrés Odizzio. In both works Ugo Ulive has small roles. That same year The Warehouse season continues with a short program of Spanish authors, among whom were: Cervantes, Lorca and Lope de Rueda.En season the following year, 1953, The Warehouse made its program as the year progresses. Each play is directed by a new director, on many occasions emerged own cast of Warehouse. This crisis has produced promising direction as Monserrat works of Emmanuel Robles led by José "Pepe" Estruch, which unleash praise in several works within montevideana.Luego little applauded by the local press, The Warehouse, manages to win, after several failed attempts (including the same "Monserrat" was), the interest of the Cioppo Atahualpa. Along with this great character Montevideano Independent Theatre in parallel to another big name, Juan José Brenta, The Warehouse group begins a new stage of development of their capabilities within the teatro.En 1955, the first issue of the magazine is published of the Warehouse, called "Independent Theatre" printed by printing "AS". This event, full of hope, but unfortunately due to lack of funds only go to the second edition of this revista.Un year later The Warehouse carries tables "The Three Sisters" by Anton Chekhov, piece by Ugo which gets Ulive the award for best supporting actor awarded by the House Theatre Ulive Montevideo.Durante this period serves as assistant Atahualpa Cioppo, there look carefully theater direction, legal seduces him with the passing of the works. == Director ==== == in 1956, just 22 years, Ugo Ulive, followed and supported by the Cioppo Atahualpa, who became his mentor, he directed his first work of theater. During the staging of the work entitled "The centroforward Died at Dawn" by Agustin Cuzzani, some friction arose within the Shed by the idea of a young director. Was why it was agreed to include, after the mention of the new director, the figure of Atahualpa Cioppo as supervisor.Un year later and boosted by the director of the Lyceum where Ulive is a professor of Spanish Language, founded and directs the Student Theatre group, where will place some of the future performance figures montevidense.Paralelamente that year continued its foray in the direction of the Warehouse, with the work "Tupac Amaru" Oswaldo Dragún. At the same time, integrates Ulive faculty training for applicants for membership in The Warehouse, which lasted three years. Ulive taught courses of action in the second year. Some of his works addressed in the context of this training, deserved recognition in the press local.En 1958, is invited to the "Latin American Symposium 1.er Scenic Directors and Independent University Theatre Activity", which takes place Tucurrán in Argentina. He meets many renowned directors in the independent theater cone sur.Un couple of years later, wanting to do a tribute to the old murguistas but sensing a possible rejection of the "serious theater" Ulive binds with Mauricio Rosencof who inspired and passionate about the ideas and desires of Ugo Ulive writes "The great Tuleque" playing with humor, current affairs. The result of this project was a work that mixed murga, music and theater, becoming rather "a show" which was a pretty enthusiastic response by the public but created a division in the review. This division, between those who defend the "serious theater" and those who see in this work a new ground to exploit, it suffers even within the group of the same year Galpón.Ese Ulive is invited to run a couple of plays for Comedy national, within the cycle of Tribute to Florencio. Here is the opportunity to work with renowned actors and background scene Uruguay National Theater, an experience that delighted despite having obtained a result that little we complacía.Además his foray into theater direction, Ulive, ventures into the lighting plays. This technical activity reveals a creative capacity, which prompts him to develop skills in this area, directing the lighting of several works. His expertise in this area led him to win with Pacho Baris and Pieri, an unusual competition: "The lighting and decor Avenue July 18" for Carnival 1960 Unfortunately Uruguay through a period of energy crisis and suspended. lighting, making Carnival in full light of día.Ese year Ulive leave the Shed to go to Havana, where he began a new stage in the life of this director. === Incursion film === During those months the "Teatro del Pueblo," which belonged Ulive group associated to the group "the Island", later to generate what would be called the Warehouse. Ugo Ulive became interested in cinema, and also began his first forays into this new medium. Here's how the contest under "Flash Movies" Organized by "University Film" Hugo Ulive by and Ferruccio Bolón Musitelli, he decides to produce what would be his first film. The theme of the competition was the Avenida 18 July Montevideo.Poco later, slightly inspired on the story "The Wait" by Jorge Luis Borges (who was very much in vogue among the youth of that time Montevideana), decides to resume his intentions filmmakers once again. With this new film project, Ulive participates Competition Film Club and get the third premio.El next year, received the award motivates him to participate in a competition launched by the University Film. Without knowing the subject of this new project very well, Ulive begins to shape his ideas leaning figure of bureaucracy in order to create "Official". Try to excite some friends but negative view to participate in the project, finally decides to develop it alone. Despite his dissatisfaction with the result that he lists "poor and rather sad," Ulive gets the second prize and the main actor gets a mention especial.Sin But the disappointment experienced with previous project not discouraged attempts in his film. Thus, joins Andrew Arms (Radio Carve librettist), to spice "Attempt". With this work, participate in a contest where they get a first prize, considered particularly important given the fact that this time the competition was organized by the Film Uruguaya.Esta new cinematographic work encourages Ugo Ulive to try new techniques and overcome the limitations of filming the abocarse by using 16 mm. In that sense, between 1958 and 1959, is released in this new format for the making of "A vintén pa'l Judas". The following year, he posed himself the idea of making a film about Uruguay, with some scenes shot, provided by other reviewers and some others taken from television news. This work presents a review open to the Uruguay of the time making clear the political non-affiliation. The play was controversial within the review to show a stark reality, thanks to the sharp camera Ulive already beginning to dominate. === === The Radio Novelas Alongside his performance as an actor in The Warehouse, Ulive, recalling his years with the master Orejon, agree to participate as an actor in radio drama on Radio Carve, CX 16. this project was accompanied by Olympius "Rafael" Salzano, who ran with only secondary roles in the radial novel. These papers, although did not appear in every chapter but intermittently, helped him to cover the cost of this time entonces.En Tolve meets Carlos, who would become, years later, an inspiration to Ulive by the way they work, their passion, their sensitivity and their observations. == References ==== References == * National Council for Culture, Chacao Foundation. "Ugo Ulive: 50 years in the life of an artist." Compilation and epilogue: Sciamanna, Luigi. Caracas. Editorial Art, 1998 ISBN 980-07-5359-1 * Ulive, Ugo. "Memoirs of theater and film» Montevideo. Trilce, 2007 ISBN 9974-32-465-3 == External Links == * Uruguayan Theater * Chronology IMDb Uruguayan film until 1999 Site of the Uruguayan Cinematheque * movie.. Uruguayan. Site of the Uruguayan Cinematheque...