Ali Cordero Casal (born August 12, 1955) is a Venezuelan entrepreneur. He was the founder and CEO of Venezuelan–based ACC, C.A. DE CORRETAJE DE SEGUROS. He serves as Chairman and CEO for Museo de Arte Acarigua Araure and Venezuelan American Endowment for the Arts (VAEA). He was an artist in a collective and had solo exhibits in New York and Caracas.

== Early life ==

Born in Acarigua, Venezuela, Ali is the third of five children of Venezuelan politician and cattleman, a former governor and senator for Portuguesa State Waldemar Cordero Vale with Yuya Casal de Cordero.

Due to his father's political and business-related preoccupations, Ali lived in cities inside and outside Venezuela, where he attended schools.

At age 12 he left to study at Our Lady of Mount Carmel School in Schenectady, New York.

He finished his studies at Jose Antonio Páez High School in Acarigua, and Jose Vicente Unda High School in Guanare, the capital city of Portuguesa. Ali finished his studies in “San Vicente de Paúl” High School in Barquisimento, the capital of neighboring state Lara.  After this, Ali moved to Venezuela's capital city Caracas, where he joined “Universidad Católica Andres Bello” and obtained a degree in Business Administration in 1979, later attending studies for an insurance degree from the Instituto Universitario de Seguros in Caracas.

== Personal life ==

On August 20, 1977, Casal married Dalia Reyes Barrios an architect who shared his interest in art collecting, architecture, interior design  and charitable work.

They raised three daughters, Victoria Eugenia, Valentina Isabel and Valeria Alejandra.

== Business career ==

In 1974, even before joining college, Ali founded his primary company, ACC Insurance Brokers Group.

== Collector ==

By his early 20's, Ali started his personal collection of contemporary arts including Kinetic, Pop and Neo Pop Art. His collection grew to more than 1200 pieces including works by Andy Warhol, Jesus Soto, Arman, Robert Mapplethorpe, Edward Mapplethorpe, Leda Catunda, Valentin Valhorant, Fernando Botero, Arnold Newman, Artemio Narro, Milton Becerra, Rafael Barrios, Francisco Salazar, Cerith Wyn Evans, Clarence Sinclair Bull, Barbara Morgan, Annie Leibovitz and many others.

His career as a visual artist began in the early 90's, although Ali had already started taking pictures using a small Pentax K-1000, and later with small point-and-shoot cameras, managing to capture very intimate moments. As his interest for photography grew, he started to create projects with other professional photographers. In 1995 he moved to a warehouse (El Galpón) in the hills of Caracas and with the professional assistance of architect/designer Carlos Henrique Hernandez, converted it into a photography studio/loft, where Ali worked during the decade of 1995–2005.

In 2005 the family moved to a new Studio/Home in the east of Caracas that he calls (ATICO)  in a building from the 40s.

== References ==