Patricia van Dalen is a renowned Venezuelan painter and visual artist.

== Early life ==
Patricia van Dalen was born in Maracaibo, Venezuela, in 1955. Currently, she resides and works in Miami and Caracas. She graduated from highschool in Caracas and went on to study graphic design in the Neumann Design Institute (Instituto de Diseño Neumann). Intermittently between 1980 and 1986, the artist studied and lived in Paris, while she worked with the renowned Israeli artist Yaacov Agam.

== Career ==
Van Dalen taught in the Design Institute Foundation and the Architecture School of the Central University of Venezuela. Since 1978 she has been part of a great variety of individual and collective art expositions, both in Venezuela and around the world.

Her work has been exhibited frequently in Venezuela and has received well-known local awards, and therefore her paintings are spread in both public and private collections. In 2011 Van Dalen earned the 2010 Established Artist AICA Award, from the International Association of Art Critics / Venezuela Chapter. Van Dalen's work has extensively contributed to mural art and artistic interventions in public spaces as well as private residences, like the Mural Jardín Lumínico in the Prados del Este Highway, Caracas, Venezuela. Her interest in the social dimension of artistic production has led her to frequently incorporating installations and other kinds of ephemeral works, into public spaces where the presence of art is not usually expected. Her work has been collected by institutions such as: Museum of Latin American Art, MoLAA, Los Angeles, CA; Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden, Coral Gables, FL; Museo de Bellas Artes, Galería de Arte Nacional, and Museo de Arte Contemporáneo, all of them in Caracas, Venezuela, among others.

After leading a versatile trajectory, Van Dalen has recently taken up photography again -a medium to which she associated herself during her formative years as a graphic designer- in order to develop the body of work that she has recently displayed in Miami, USA. In the course of this exploration, Van Dalen has found ways to link up with motivating factors from her previous productions, as well as ways to unfold new strategies and artistic configurations that are distinct from the former.

==References==

==External links==
*Patricia van Dalen's Web site